

 20Â¢

 ASTOUNDING STORIES OF SUPER-SCIENCE

 _On Sale the First Thursday of Each Month_

  W. M. CLAYTON, Publisher
  HARRY BATES, Editor
  DOUGLAS M. DOLD, Consulting Editor


The Clayton Standard on a Magazine Guarantees:

  _That_ the stories therein are clean, interesting, vivid; by leading
  writers of the day and purchased under conditions approved by the
  Authors' League of America;

  _That_ such magazines are manufactured in Union shops by American
  workmen;

  _That_ each newsdealer and agent is insured a fair profit;

  _That_ an intelligent censorship guards their advertising pages.


_The other Clayton magazines are:_

ACE-HIGH MAGAZINE, RANCH ROMANCES, COWBOY STORIES, CLUES, FIVE-NOVELS
MONTHLY, WIDE WORLD ADVENTURES, ALL STAR DETECTIVE STORIES, FLYERS,
RANGELAND LOVE STORY MAGAZINE, SKY-HIGH LIBRARY MAGAZINE, WESTERN
ADVENTURES, MISS 1930, _and_ FOREST AND STREAM

_More Than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand for
Clayton Magazines._




 VOL. II, No. 1                 CONTENTS                        APRIL, 1930


 COVER DESIGN                              H. W. WESSOLOWSKI

 _Painted in Water-colors from a Scene in "Monsters of Moyen."_


 THE MAN WHO WAS DEAD                      THOMAS H. KNIGHT               9

 _As Jerry's Eyes Fell on the Creature's Head, He Shuddered--for the
 Face Was Nothing but Bone, with Dull-brown Skin Stretched Taut over It.
 A Skeleton That Was Alive!_


 MONSTERS OF MOYEN                         ARTHUR J. BURKS               18

 _"The Western World Shall be Next!" Was the Dread Ultimatum of the
 Half-monster, Half-god Moyen._


 VAMPIRES OF VENUS                         ANTHONY PELCHER               47

 _Leslie Larner, an Entomologist Borrowed from the Earth, Pits Himself
 Against the Night-flying Vampires That Are Ravaging the Inhabitants
 of Venus._


 BRIGANDS OF THE MOON                      RAY CUMMINGS                  60

 _Out of Awful Space Tumbled the Space-ship Planetara Towards the
 Moon, Her Officers Dead, With Bandits at Her Helm--and the Controls
 Out of Order!_


 THE SOUL SNATCHER                         TOM CURRY                    101

 _From Twenty Miles Away Stabbed the "Atom-filtering" Rays to Allen
 Baker in His Cell in the Death House._


 THE RAY OF MADNESS                        CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK           112

 _Dr. Bird Uncovers a Dastardly Plot, Amazing in its Mechanical
 Ingenuity, Behind the Apparently Trivial Eye Trouble of the
 President._


 THE READERS' CORNER                       ALL OF US                    127

 _A Meeting Place for Readers of Astounding Stories._


Single Copies, 20 Cents (In Canada, 25 Cents) Yearly Subscription, $2.00

Issued monthly by Publishers' Fiscal Corporation, 80 Lafayette St., New
York, N. Y. W. M. Clayton, President; Nathan Goldmann, Secretary.
Application for entry as second-class mail pending at the Post Office at
New York, under Act of March 3, 1879. Title registered as a Trade Mark
in the U. S. Patent Office. Member Newsstand Group--Men's List. For
advertising rates address E. R. Crowe & Co., Inc., 25 Vanderbilt Ave.,
New York; or 225 North Michigan Ave., Chicago.




The Man Who Was Dead

_By Thomas H. Knight_

[Illustration: "_I was dead._"]

  As Jerry's eyes fell on the creature's head, he shuddered--for the
  face was nothing but bone, with dull-brown skin stretched taut over
  it. A skeleton that was alive!


It was a wicked night, the night I met the man who had died. A bitter,
heart-numbing night of weird, shrieking wind and flying snow. A few
black hours I will never forget.

"Well, Jerry, lad!" my mother said to me as I pushed back from the table
and started for my sheepskin coat and the lantern in the corner of the
room. "Surely you're not going out a night like this? Goodness gracious,
Jerry, it's not fit!"

"Can't help it, Mother," I replied. "Got to go. You've never seen me
miss a Saturday night yet, have you now?"

"No. But then I've never seen a night like this for years either. Jerry,
I'm really afraid. You may freeze before you even get as far as--"

"Ah, come now, Mother," I argued. "They'd guy me to death if I didn't
sit in with the gang to-night. They'd chaff me because it was too cold
for me to get out. But I'm no pampered sissy, you know, and I want to
see--"

"Yes," she retorted bitingly, "I know. You want to go and bask in that
elegant company. Our stove's just as good as the one down at that dirty
old store," continued my persistent and anxious parent, "and it's
certainly not very flattering to think that you leave us on a night like
this to--Who'll be there, anyway?"

"Oh, the usual five or six I suppose," I answered as I adjusted the wick
of my lantern, hearing as I did the snarl and cut of the wind through
the evergreens in the yard.

"That black-whiskered sphinx, Hammersly, will he be there?"

"Yes, he'll be there, I'm pretty sure."

"Hm-m!" she exclaimed, her expression now carrying all the contempt for
my judgment and taste she intended it should. "Button your coat up good
around your neck, then, if you must go to see your precious Hammersly
and the rest of them. Have you ever heard that man say anything yet?
Does he speak at all, Jerry?" Then her gentle mind, not at all
accustomed to hard thoughts or contemptuous remarks, quickly changed.
"Funny thing about that fellow," she mused. "He's got something on his
mind. Don't you think so, Jerry?"

"Y-es, yes I do. And I've often wondered what it could be. He
certainly's a queer stick. Got to admit that. Always brooding. Good
fellow all right, and, for a 'sphinx' as you call him, likable. But I
wonder what is eating him?"

"What do you suppose it could be, Jerry boy?" questioned Mother
following me to the door, the woman of her now completely forgetting her
recent criticisms and, perhaps, the rough night her son was about to
step into. "Do you suppose the poor chap has a--a--broken heart, or
something like that? A girl somewhere who jilted him? Or maybe he loves
someone he has no right to!" she finished excitedly, the plates in her
hand rattling.

"Maybe it's worse than that," I ventured. "P'r'aps--I've no right to say
it--but p'r'aps, and I've often thought it, there's a killing he wants
to forget, and can't!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I heard my mother's sharp little "Oh!" as I shut the door behind me and
the warmth and comfort of the room away. Outside it was worse than the
whistle of the wind through the trees had led me to expect. Black as
pitch it was, and as cold as blazes. For the first moment or two,
though, I liked the feel of the challenge of the night and the racing
elements, was even a little glad I had added to the dare of the
blackness the thought of Hammersly and his "killing." But I had not gone
far before I was wishing I did not have to save my face by putting in an
appearance at the store that night.

Every Saturday night, with the cows comfortable in their warm barn, and
my own supper over, I was in the habit of taking my place on the keg or
box behind the red-hot stove in Pruett's store. To-night all the snow
was being hurled clear of the fields to block the roads full between the
old, zigzag fences. The wind met me in great pushing gusts, and while it
flung itself at me I would hang against it, snow to my knees, until the
blow had gone along, when I could plunge forward again. I was glad when
I saw the lights of the store, glad when I was inside.

They met me with mock applause for my pluck in facing the night, but for
all their sham flattery I was pleased I had come, proud, I must admit,
that I had been able to plough my heavy way through the drifts to reach
them. I saw at a glance that my friends were all there, and I saw too
that there was a strange man present.

       *       *       *       *       *

A very tall man he was, gaunt and awkward as he leaned into the angle of
the two counters, his back to a dusty show-case. He attracted my
attention at once. Not merely because he appeared so long and pointed
and skinny, but because, of all ridiculous things in that frozen
country, he wore a hard derby hat! If he had not been such a queer
character it would have been laughable, but as it was it was--creepy.
For the man beneath that hard hat was about as queer a looking character
as I have ever seen. I supposed he was a visitor at the store, or a
friend of one of my friends, and that in a little while I would be
introduced. But I was not.

I took my place in behind the stove, feeling at once, though I am far
from being unsociable usually, that the man was an intruder and would
spoil the evening. But despite his cold, dampening presence we were soon
at it, hammer and tongs, discussing the things that are discussed behind
hospitable stoves in country stores on bad nights. But I could never
lose sight of the fact that the stranger standing there, silent as the
grave, was, to say the least, a queer one. Before long I was sure he was
no friend or guest of anyone there, and that he not only cast a pall
over me but over all of us. I did not like it, nor did I like him.
Perhaps it would have been just as well after all, I thought, had I
heeded my mother and stayed home.

Jed Counsell was the one who, innocently enough, started the thing that
changed the evening, that had begun so badly, into a nightmare.

"Jerry," he said, leaning across to me, "thinkin' of you s'afternoon.
Readin' an article about reincarnation. Remember we were arguin' it last
week? Well, this guy, whoever he was I've forgot, believes in it. Says
it's so. That people _do_ come back." With this opening shot Jed sat
back to await my answer. I liked these arguments and I liked to bear my
share in them, but now, instead of immediately answering the challenge,
I looked around to see if any other of our circle were going to answer
Jed. Then, deciding it was up to me, I shrugged off the strange feeling
the man in the corner had cast over me, and prepared to view my
opinions.

"That's just that fellow's belief, Jed," I said. "And just as he's got
his so have I mine. And on this subject at least I claim my opinion is
as good as anybody's." I was just getting nicely started, and a little
forgetting my distaste for the man in the corner, when the fellow
himself interrupted. He left his leaning place, and came creaking across
the floor to our circle around the store. I say he came "creaking" for
as he came he did creak. "Shoes," I naturally, almost unconsciously
decided, though the crazy notion was in my mind that the cracking I
heard did sound like bones and joints and sinews badly in need of oil.
The stranger sat his groaning self down among us, on a board lying
across a nail keg and an old chair. Only from the corner of my eye did I
see his movement, being friendly enough, despite my dislike, not to
allow too marked notice of his attempt to be sociable seem inhospitable
on my part. I was about to start again with my argument when Seth
Spears, sitting closest to the newcomer, deliberately got up from the
bench and went to the counter, telling Pruett as he went that he had to
have some sugar. It was all a farce, a pretext, I knew. I've known Seth
for years and had never known him before to take upon himself the buying
for his wife's kitchen. Seth simply would not sit beside the man.

       *       *       *       *       *

At that I could keep my eyes from the stranger no longer, and the next
moment I felt my heart turn over within me, then lie still. I have seen
"walking skeletons" in circuses, but never such a man as the one who was
then sitting at my right hand. Those side-show men were just lean in
comparison to the fellow who had invaded our Saturday night club. His
thighs and his legs and his knees, sticking sharply into his trousers,
looked like pieces of inch board. His shoulders and his chest seemed as
flat and as sharp as his legs. The sight of the man shocked me. I sprang
to my feet thoroughly frightened. I could not see much of his face,
sitting there in the dark as he was with his back to the yellow light,
but I could make out enough of it to know that it was in keeping with
the rest of him.

In a moment or two, realizing my childishness, I had fought down my fear
and, pretending that a scorching of my leg had caused my hurried
movement, I sat down again. None of the others said a word, each waiting
for me to continue and to break the embarrassing silence. Hammersly,
black-whiskered, the "sphinx" as my mother had called him, watched me
closely. Hating myself not a little bit for actually being the sissy I
had boasted I was not, I spoke hurriedly, loudly, to cover my confusion.

"No sir, Jed!" I said, taking up my argument. "When a man's dead, he's
dead! There's no bringing him back like that highbrow claimed. The old
heart may be only hitting about once in every hundred times, and if they
catch it right at the last stroke they may bring it back then, but once
she's stopped, Jed, she's stopped for good. Once the pulse has gone, and
life has flickered out, it's out. And it doesn't come back in any form
at all, not in this world!"

I was glad when I had said it, thereby asserting myself and downing my
foolish fear of the man whose eyes I felt burning into me. I did not
turn to look at him but all the while I felt his gimlety eyes digging
into my brain.

Then he spoke. And though he sat right next to me his voice sounded like
a moan from afar off. It was the first time we had heard this thing that
once may have been a voice and that now sounded like a groan from a
closely nailed coffin. He reached a hand toward my knee to enforce his
words, but I jerked away.

"So you don't believe a man can come back from the grave, eh?" he
grated. "Believe that once a man's heart is stilled it's stopped for
good, eh? Well, you're all wrong, sonny. All wrong! You believe these
things. I _know_ them!"

       *       *       *       *       *

His interference, his condescension, his whole hatefulness angered me. I
could now no longer control my feeling. "Oh! You _know_, do you?" I
sneered. "On such a subject as this you're entitled to _know_, are you?
Don't make me laugh!" I finished insultingly. I was aroused. And I'm a
big fellow, with no reason to fear ordinary men.

"Yes, I know!" came back his echoing, scratching voice.

"How do you know? Maybe you've been--?"

"Yes, I have!" he answered, his voice breaking to a squeak. "Take a good
look at me, gentlemen. A good look." He knew now that he held the center
of the stage, that the moment was his. Slowly he raised an arm to remove
that ridiculous hat. Again I jumped to my feet. For as his coat sleeve
slipped down his forearm I saw nothing but bone supporting his hand. And
the hand that then bared his head was a skeleton hand! Slowly the hat
was lifted, but as quickly as light six able-bodied men were on their
feet and half way to the door before we realized the cowardliness of it.
We forced ourselves back inside the store very slowly, all of us rather
ashamed of our ridiculous and childlike fear.

But it was all enough to make the blood curdle, with that live, dead
thing sitting there by our fire. His face and skull were nothing but
bone, the eyes deeply sunk into their sockets, the dull-brown skin like
parchment in its tautness, drawn and shriveled down onto the nose and
jaw. There were no cheeks. Just hollows. The mouth was a sharp slit
beneath the flat nose. He was hideous.

"Come back and I'll tell you my yarn," he mocked, the slit that was his
mouth opening a little to show us the empty, blackened gums. "I've been
dead once," he went on, getting a lot of satisfaction from the weirdness
of the lie and from our fear, "and _I_ came back. Come and sit down and
I'll explain why I'm this living skeleton."

       *       *       *       *       *

We came back slowly, and as I did I slipped my hand into my outside
pocket where I had a revolver. I put my finger in on the trigger and got
ready to use the vicious little thing. I was on edge and torn to pieces
completely by the sight of the man, and I doubt not that had he made a
move towards me my frayed nerves would have plugged him full of lead. I
eyed my friends. They were in no better way than was I. Fright and
horror stood on each face. Hammersly was worst. His hands were
twitching, his eyes were like bright glass, his face bleached and drawn.

"I've quite a yarn to tell," went on the skeleton in his awful voice.
"I've had quite a life. A full life. I've taken my fun and my pleasure
wherever I could. Maybe you'll call me selfish and greedy, but I always
used to believe that a man only passed this way once. Just like you
believe," he nodded to me, his neck muscles and jaws creaking. "Six
years ago I came up into this country and got a job on a farm," he went
on, settling into his story. "Just an ordinary job. But I liked it
because the farmer had a pretty little daughter of about sixteen or
seventeen and as easy as could be. You may not believe it, but you can
still find dames green enough to fall for the right story.

"This one did. I told her I was only out there for a time for my health.
That I was rich back in the city, with a fine home and everything. She
believed me. Little fool!" He chuckled as he said it, and my anger,
mounting with his every devilish word, made the finger on the trigger in
my pocket take a tighter crook to itself. "I asked her to skip with me,"
the droning went on, "made her a lot of great promises, and she fell for
it." His dry jaw bones clanked and chattered as if he enjoyed the
beastly recital of his achievement, while we sat gaping at him,
believing either that the man must be mad, or that we were the mad ones,
or dreaming.

"We slipped away one night," continued the beast. "Went to the city. To
a punk hotel. For three weeks we stayed there. Then one morning I told
her I was going out for a shave. I was. I got the shave. But I hadn't
thought it worth while to tell her I wouldn't be back. Well, she got
back to the farm some way, though I don't know--"

       *       *       *       *       *

"What!" I shouted, springing before him. "What! You mean you left her
there! After you'd taken her, you left her! And here you sit crowing
over it! Gloating! Boasting! Why you--!" I lived in a rough country.
Associated with rough men, heard their vicious language, but seldom used
a strong word myself. But as I stood over that monster, utterly hating
the beastly thing, all the vile oaths and prickly language of the
countryside, no doubt buried in some unused cell in my brain, spilled
from my tongue upon him. When I had lashed him as fiercely as I was able
I cried: "Why don't you come at me? Didn't you hear what I called you?
You beast! I'd like to riddle you!" I shouted, drawing my gun.

"Aw, sit down!" he jeered, waving his rattling hand at me. "You ain't
heard a thing yet. Let me finish. Well, she got back to the farm some
way or another, and something over a year later I wandered into this
country again too. I never could explain just why I came back. It was
not altogether to see the girl. Her father was a little bit of a man and
I began to remember what a meek and weak sheep he was. I got it into my
head that it'd be fun to go back to his farm and rub it in. So I came.

"Her father was trying out a new corn planter right at the back door
when I rounded the house and walked towards him. Then I saw, at once,
that I had made a mistake. When he put his eyes on me his face went
white and hard. He came down from the seat of that machine like a flash,
and took hurried steps in the direction of a doublebarrelled gun
leaning against the woodshed. They always were troubled with hawks and
kept a gun handy. But there was an ax nearer to me than the gun was to
him. I had to work fast but I made it all right. I grabbed that ax,
jumped at him as he reached for the gun, and swung--once. His wife, and
the girl too, saw it. Then I turned and ran."

       *       *       *       *       *

The gaunt brute before us slowly crossed one groaning knee above the
other. We were all sitting again now. The perspiration rolled down my
face. I held my gun trained upon him, and, though I now believed he was
totally mad, because of a certain ring of truth in that empty voice, I
sat fascinated. I looked at Seth. His jaw was hanging loose, his eyes
bulging. Hammersly's mouth was set in a tight clenched line, his eyes
like fire in his blue, drawn face. I could not see the others.

"The telephone caught me," continued our ghastly story-teller, "and in
no time at all I was convicted and the date set for the hanging. When my
time was pretty close a doctor or scientist fellow came to see me who
said, 'Blaggett, you're slated to die. How much will you sell me your
body for?' If he didn't say it that way he meant just that. And I said,
'Nothing. I've no one to leave money to. What do you want with my body?'
And he told me, 'I believe I can bring you back to life and health,
provided they don't snap your neck when they drop you.' 'Oh, you're one
of _those_ guys, are you?' I said then. 'All right, hop to it. If you
can do it I'll be much obliged. Then I can go back on that farm and do a
little more ax swinging!'" Again came his horrible chuckle, again I
mopped my brow.

"So we made our plans," he went on, pleased with our discomfiture and
our despising of him. "Next day some chap came to see me, pretending he
was my brother. And I carried out my part of it by cursing him at first
and then begging him to give me decent burial. So he went away, and, I
suppose, received permission to get me right after I was cut down.

"There was a fence built around the scaffold they had ready for me and
the party I was about to fling, and they had some militia there, too.
The crowd seemed quiet enough till they led me out. Then their buzzing
sounded like a hive of bees getting all stirred up. Then a few loud
voices, then shouts. Some rocks came flying at me after that, and it
looked to me as though the hanging would not be so gentle a party after
all. I tell you I was afraid. I wished it was over.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The mob pushed against the fence and flattened it out, coming over it
like waves over a beach. The soldiers fired into the air, but still they
came, and I, I ran--up, onto the scaffold. It was safer!" As he said
this he chuckled loudly. "I'll bet," he laughed, "that's the first time
a guy ever ran into the noose for the safety of it! The mob came only to
the foot of the scaffold though, from where they seemed satisfied to see
the law take its course. The sheriff was nervous. So cut up that he only
made a fling at tying my ankles, just dropped a rope around my wrists.
He was like me, he wanted to get it over, and the crowd on its way. Then
he put the rope around my neck, stepped back and shot the trap. Zamm! No
time for a prayer--or for me to laugh at the offer!--or a last word or
anything.

"I felt the floor give, felt myself shoot through. Smack! My weight on
the end of the rope hit me behind the ears like a mallet. Everything
went black. Of course it would have been just my luck to get a broken
neck out of it and give the scientist no chance to revive me. But after
a second or two, or a minute, or it could have been an hour, the
blackness went away enough to allow me to know I was hanging on the end
of the rope, kicking, fighting, choking to death. My tongue swelled, my
face and head and heart and body seemed ready to burst. Slowly I went
into a deep mist that I knew then was _the_ mist, then--then--I was off
floating in the air over the heads of the crowd, watching my own
hanging!

"I saw them give that slowly swinging carcass on the end of its rope
time enough to thoroughly die, then, from my aerial, unseen watching
place, I saw them cut it--me--down. They tried the pulse of the body
that had been mine, they examined my staring eyes. Then I heard them
pronounce me dead. The fools! I had known I was dead for a minute or two
by that time, else how could my spirit have been gone from the shell and
be out floating around over their heads?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He paused here as he asked his question, his head turning on its dry and
creaking neck to include us all in his query. But none of us spoke. We
were dreaming it all, of course, or were mad, we thought.

"In just a short while," went on the skeleton, "my 'brother' came
driving slowly in for my body. With no special hurry he loaded me onto
his little truck and drove easily away. But once clear of the crowd he
pushed his foot down on the gas and in five more minutes--with me
hovering all the while alongside of him, mind you--floating along as
though I had been a bird all my life--we turned into the driveway of a
summer home. The scientific guy met him. They carried me into the house,
into a fine-fitted laboratory. My dead body was placed on a table, a
huge knife ripped my clothes from me.

"Quickly the loads from ten or a dozen hypodermic syringes were shot
into different parts of my naked body. Then it was carried across the
room to what looked like a large glass bottle, or vase, with an opening
in the top. Through this door I was lowered, my body being held upright
by straps in there for that purpose. The door to the opening was then
placed in position, and by means of an acetylene torch and some easily
melting glass, the door was sealed tight.

"So there stood my poor old body. Ready for the experiment to bring it
back to life. And as my new self floated around above the scientist and
his helper I smiled to myself, for I was sure the experiment would prove
a failure, even though I now knew that the sheriff's haste had kept him
from placing the rope right at my throat and had saved me a broken neck.
I was dead. All that was left of me now was my spirit, or soul. And that
was swimming and floating about above their heads with not an
inclination in the world to have a thing to do with the husk of the man
I could clearly see through the glass of the bell.

       *       *       *       *       *

"They turned on a huge battery of ultra-violet rays then," continued the
hollow droning of the man who had been hanged, "which, as the scientist
had explained to me while in prison, acting upon the contents of the
syringes, by that time scattered through my whole body, was to renew the
spark of life within the dead thing hanging there. Through a tube, and
by means of a valve entering the glass vase in the top, the scientist
then admitted a dense white gas. So thick was it that in a moment or two
my body's transparent coffin appeared to be full of a liquid as white as
milk. Electricity then revolved my cage around so that my body was
insured a complete and even exposure to the rays of the green and violet
lamps. And while all this silly stuff was going on, around and around
the laboratory I floated, confident of the complete failure of the whole
thing, yet determined to see it through if for no other reason than to
see the discomfiture and disappointment that this mere man was bound to
experience. You see, I was already looking back upon earthly mortals as
being inferior, and now as I waited for this proof I was all the while
fighting off a new urge to be going elsewhere. Something was calling me,
beckoning me to be coming into the full spirit world. But I wanted to
see this wise earth guy fail.

"For a little while conditions stayed the same within that glass. So
thick was the liquid gas in there at first that I could see nothing.
Then it began to clear, and I saw to my surprise that the milky gas was
disappearing because it was being forced in by the rays from the lights
in through the pores into the body itself. As though my form was sucking
it in like a sponge. The scientist and his helper were tense and taut
with excitement. And suddenly my comfortable feeling left me. Until then
it had seemed so smooth and velvety and peaceful drifting around over
their heads, as though lying on a soft, fleecy cloud. But now I felt a
sudden squeezing of my spirit body. Then I was in an agony. Before I
knew what I was doing my spirit was clinging to the outside of that
twisting glass bell, clawing to get into the body that was coming back
to life! The glass now was perfectly clear of the gas, though as yet
there was no sign of life in the body inside to hint to the scientist
that he was to be successful. But I knew it. For I fought desperately to
break in through the glass to get back into my discarded shell of a body
again, knowing I must get in or die a worse death than I had before.

"Then my sharper eyes noted a slight shiver passing over the white thing
before me, and the scientist must have seen it in the next second, for
he sprang forward with a choking cry of delight. Then the lolling head
inside lifted a bit. I--still desperately clinging with my spirit hands
to the outside, and all the time growing weaker and weaker--I saw the
breast of my body rise and fall. The assistant picked up a heavy steel
hammer and stood ready to crash open the glass at the right moment. Then
my once dead eyes opened in there to look around, while I, clinging and
gasping outside, just as I had on the scaffold, went into a deeper,
darker blackness than ever. Just before my spirit life died utterly I
saw the eyes of my body realize completely what was going on, then--from
the inside now--I saw the scientist give the signal that caused the
assistant to crash away the glass shell with one blow of his hammer.

"They reached in for me then, and I fainted. When I came back to
consciousness I was being carefully, slowly revived, and nursed back to
life by oxygen and a pulmotor."

       *       *       *       *       *

The terrible creature telling us this tale paused again to look around.
My knees were weak, my clothes wet with sweat.

"Is that all?" I asked in a piping, strange voice, half sarcastic, half
unbelieving, and wholly spellbound.

"Just about," he answered. "But what do you expect? I left my friend the
scientist at once, even though he did hate to see me go. It had been all
right while he was so keen on the experiment himself and while he only
half believed his ability to bring me back. But now that he'd done it,
it kinda worried him to think what sort of a man he was turning loose of
the world again. I could see how he was figuring, and because I had no
idea of letting him try another experiment on me, p'r'aps of putting me
away again, I beat it in a hurry.

"That was five years ago. For five years I've lived with only just part
of me here. Whatever it was trying to get back into that glass just
before my body came to life--my spirit, I've been calling it--I've been
without. It never did get back. You see, the scientist brought me back
inside a shell that kept my spirit out. That's why I'm the skeleton you
see I am. Something vital is missing."

He stood up cracking and creaking before us, buttoning his loose coat
about his angular body. "Well, boys," he asked lightly, "what do you
think of that?"

"I think you're a liar! A damn liar!" I cried. "And now, if you don't
want me to fill you full of lead, get out of here and get out now! If I
have to do it to you, there's no scientist this time to bring you back.
When you go out you'll stay out!"

"Don't worry," he grimaced back to me, waving a mass of bones that
should have been a hand contemptuously at me, "I'm going. I'm headed for
Shelton." He stalked the length of the floor and shut the door behind
him. The beast had gone.

"The dirty liar!" I cried. "I wish--yes--I wish I had an excuse to kill
him. Just think of that being loose, will you? A brute who would think
up such a yarn! Of course it's all absurd. All crazy. All a lie."

"No. It's not a lie."

       *       *       *       *       *

I turned to see who had spoken. Hammersly's voice was so unfamiliar and
now so torn in addition that I could not have thought he had spoken, had
he not been looking right at me, his glittering eyes challenging my
assertion. Would wonders never cease? I asked myself. First this
outrageous yarn, now Hammersly, the "sphinx," expressing an opinion,
looking for an argument! Of course it must be that his susceptible and
brooding brain had been turned a bit by the evening we had just
experienced.

"Why Hammersly! You don't believe it?" I asked.

"I not only believe it, Jerry, but now it's my turn to say, as he did, I
_know_ it! Jerry, old friend," he went on, "that devil told the truth.
He was hanged. He was brought back to life; and Jerry--I was that
scientist!"

Whew! I fell back to a box again. My knees seemed to forsake me. Then I
heard Hammersly talking to himself.

"Five years it's been," he muttered. "Five years since I turned him
loose again. Five years of agony for me, wondering what new devilish
crimes he was perpetrating, wondering when he would return to that
little farm to swing his ax again. Five years--five years."

He came over to me, and without a word of explanation or to ask my
permission he reached his hand into my pocket and drew out my revolver,
and I did not protest.

"He said he was headed for Shelton," went on Hammersly's spoken
thoughts. "If I slip across the ice I can intercept him at Black's
woods." Buttoning his coat closely, he followed the stranger out into
the night.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was glad the moon had come up for my walk home, glad too when I had
the door locked and propped with a chair behind me. I undressed in the
dark, not wanting any grisly, sunken-eyed monster to be looking in
through the window at me. For maybe, so I thought, maybe he was after
all not headed for Shelton, but perhaps planning on another of his
ghastly tricks.

But in the morning we knew he had been going toward Shelton. Scientists,
doctors, and learned men of all descriptions came out to our village to
see the thing the papers said Si Waters had stumbled upon when on his
way to the creamery that next morning.

It was a skeleton, they said, only that it had a dry skin all over it. A
mummy. Could not have been considered capable of containing life only
that the snow around it was lightly blotched with a pale smear that
proved to be blood, that had oozed out from the six bullet holes in the
horrid chest. They never did solve it.

There were five of us in the store that night. Five of us who know.
Hammersly did what we all wanted to do. Of course his name is not really
Hammersly, but it has done here as well as another. He is
black-whiskered though, and he is still very much of a sphinx, but he'll
never have to answer for having killed the man he once brought back to
life. Hammersly's secret will go into five other graves besides his
own.




Monsters of Moyen

_By Arthur J. Burks_

[Illustration: "_Now," said Kleig hoarsely, "watch closely, for
God's sake!_"]

  "The Western World shall be next!" was the dread ultimatum of the
  half-monster, half-god Moyen!


_Foreword_


In 1935 the mighty genius of Moyen gripped the Eastern world like a hand
of steel. In a matter of months he had welded the Orient into an
unbeatable war-machine. He had, through the sheer magnetism of a strange
personality, carried the Eastern world with him on his march to conquest
of the earth, and men followed him with blind faith as men in the past
have followed the banners of the Thaumaturgists.

A strange name, to the sound of which none could assign nationality.
Some said his father was a Russian refugee, his mother a Mongol woman.
Some said he was the son of a Caucasian woman lost in the Gobi and
rescued by a mad lama of Tibet, who became father of Moyen. Some said
that his mother was a goddess, his father a fiend out of hell.

[Illustration]

But this all men knew about him: that he combined within himself the
courage of a Hannibal, the military genius of a Napoleon, the ideals of
a Sun Yat Sen; and that he had sworn to himself he would never rest
until the earth was peopled by a single nation, with Moyen himself in
the seat of the mighty ruler.

Madagascar was the seat of his government, from which he looked across
into United Africa, the first to join his confederacy. The Orient was a
dependency, even to that forbidden land of the Goloks, where outlanders
sometimes went, but whence they never returned--and to the wild Goloks
he was a god whose will was absolute, to render obedience to whom was a
privilege accorded only to the Chosen.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a short year his confederacy had brought under his might the millions
of Asia, which he had welded into a mighty machine for further conquest.

And because the Americas saw the handwriting on the wall, they sent out
to see the man Moyen, with orders to penetrate to his very side, as a
spy, their most trusted Secret Agent--Prester Kleig.

Only the ignorant believed that Moyen was mad. The military and
diplomatic geniuses of the world recognized his genius, and resented it.

But Prester Kleig, of the Secret Service of the Americas, one of the
_few_ men whose headquarters were in the Secret Room in Washington, had
reached Moyen.

Now he was coming home.

He came home to tell his people what Moyen was planning, and to admit
that his investigations had been hampered at every turn by the uncanny
genius of Moyen. Military plans had been guarded with unbelievable
secrecy. War machines he knew to exist, yet had seen only those common
to all the armies of the world.

And now, twenty-four hours out of New York City, aboard the _S. S.
Stellar_, Prester Kleig was literally willing the steamer to greater
speed--and in far Madagascar the strange man called Moyen had given the
ultimatum:

"The Western World shall be next!"




CHAPTER I

_The Hand of Moyen._


"Who is that man?" asked a young lady passenger of the steward, with the
imperious inflection which tells of riches able to force obedience from
menials who labor for hire.

She pointed a bejeweled finger at the slender, soldierly figure which
stood in the prow of the liner, like a figurehead, peering into the
storm under the vessel's forefoot.

"That gentleman, milady?" repeated the steward obsequiously. "That is
Prester Kleig, head of the Secret Agents, Master of the Secret Room,
just now returning from Madagascar, via Europe, after a visit to the
realm of Moyen."

A gasp of terror burst from the lips of the woman. Her cheeks blanched.

"Moyen!" She almost whispered it. "Moyen! The half-god of Asia, whom men
call mad!"

"Not mad, milady. No, Moyen is not mad, save with a lust for power. He
is the conqueror of the ages, already ruling more of the earth's
population than any man has ever done before him--even Alexander!"

But the young lady was not listening to stewards. Wealthy young ladies
did not, save when asked questions dealing with personal service to
themselves. Her eyes devoured the slender man who stood in the prow of
the _Stellar_, while her lips shaped, over and over again, the dread
name which was on the lips of the people of the world:

"Moyen! Moyen!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Up in the prow, if Prester Kleig, who carried a dread secret in his
breast, knew of the young lady's regard, he gave no sign. There were
touches of gray at his temples, though he was still under forty. He had
seen more of life, knew more of its terrors, than most men twice his
age--because he had lived harshly in service to his country.

He was thinking of Moyen, the genius of the misshapen body, the pale
eyes which reflected the fires of a Satanic soul, set deeply in the
midst of the face of an angel; and wondering if he would be able to
arrive in time, sorry that he had not returned home by airplane.

He had taken the _Stellar_ only because the peacefulness of ocean liner
travel would aid his thoughts, and he required time to marshal them.
Liner travel was now a luxury, as all save the immensely wealthy
traveled by plane across the oceans. Now Prester Kleig was sorry, for
any moment, he felt, Moyen might strike.

He turned and looked back along the deck of the _Stellar_. His eyes
played over the trimly gowned figure of the woman who questioned the
steward, but did not really see her. And then....

"Great God!" The words were a prayer, and they burst from the lips of
Prester Kleig like an explosion. Passengers appeared from the lee of
lifeboats. Officers on the bridge whirled to look at the man who
shouted. Seamen paused in their labors to stare. Aloft in the
crow's-nest the lookout lowered his eyes from scouring the horizon to
stare at Prester Kleig--who was pointing.

All eyes turned in the direction indicated.

       *       *       *       *       *

Climbing into the sky, a mile off the starboard beam, was an airplane
with a bulbous body and queerly slanted wings. It had neither wheels nor
pontoons, and it traveled with unbelievable speed. It came on
bullet-fast, headed directly for the side of the _Stellar_.

"Lower the boats!" yelled Kleig. "Lower the boats! For God's sake lower
the boats!"

For Prester Kleig, in that casual turning, had seen what none aboard the
_Stellar_, even the lookout above, had seen. The airplane, which had
neither wheels nor pontoons, had risen, as Aphrodite is said to have
risen, out of the waves! He had seen the wings come out of the bulbous
body, snap backward into place, and the plane was in full flight the
instant it appeared.

Prester Kleig had no hope that his warning would be in time, but he
would always feel better for having given it. As the captain debated
with himself as to whether this lunatic should be confined as dangerous,
the strange airplane nosed over and dived down to the sea, a hundred
yards from the side of the _Stellar_. Just before it struck the water,
its wings snapped forward and became part of the bulbous body of the
thing, the whole of which shot like a bullet into the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prester Kleig stood at the rail, peering out at the spot where the plane
had plunged in with scarcely a splash, and his right hand was raised as
though he gave a final, despairing signal.

Of all aboard the _Stellar_, he only saw that black streak which, ten
feet under water, raced like a bolt of lightning from the nose of the
submerged but visible plane, straight as a die for the side of the
_Stellar_. Just a black streak, no bigger than a small man's arm, from
the nose of the plane to the side of the _Stellar_.

From the crow's-nest came the startled, terrific voice of the lookout,
in the beginning of a cry that must remain forever inarticulate.

The world, in that blinding moment, seemed to rock on its foundations;
to shatter itself to bits in a chaotic jumble of sound and of movement,
shot through and through with lurid flames. Kleig felt himself hurled
upward and outward, turned over and over endlessly....

He felt the storm-tossed waters close over him, and knew he had struck.
In the moment he knew--oblivion, deep, ebon and impenetrable, blotted
out knowledge.




CHAPTER II

_The Half-Dream_


A roaring, rushing river of chaotic sound, first. Jumbled sound to which
Prester Kleig could give no adequate name. But as he tried to analyze
its meanings, he was able to differentiate between sounds, and to
discover the identity of some.

The river of sound he decided to be the sound of a vibrational explosion
of some sort--vibrational because it had that quivery quality which
causes a feeling of uneasiness and fret, that feeling which makes one
turn and look around to find the eyes boring into one's back--yet
multiplied in its intensity an uncounted number of times.

Other sounds which came through the chaotic river of sound were the
terrified screaming of the men and women who were doomed. Lifeboats were
never lowered, for the reason that with the disintegration of the
_Stellar_, everything inanimate aboard her likewise disintegrated,
dropping men and women, crew and passengers, into the freezing waters of
the Atlantic.

Prester Kleig dropped with them, only partially unconscious after the
first icy plunge. He knew when he floated on the surface, for he felt
himself lifted and hurled by the waves. In his half-dream he saw men and
women being carried away into wave-shrouded darkness, clawing wildly at
nothingness for support, clawing at one another, locking arms, and going
down together.

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Stellar_, in the merest matter of seconds, had become spoil of the
sea, and her crew and passengers had vanished forever from the sight of
men. Yet Prester Kleig lived on, knew that he lived on, and that there
was an element, too strong to be disbelieved, of reality in his dream.

There was a vibratory sense, too, as of the near activity of a noiseless
motor. Noiseless motor! Where had he last thought of those two words?
With what recent catastrophe were they associated? No, he could not
recall, though he knew he should be able to do so.

Then the sense of motion to the front was apparent--an unnumbered sense,
rather than concrete feeling. Motion to front, influenced by the rising
and falling motion of mountainous waves.

So suddenly as to be a distinct shock, the wave motion ceased, though
the forward motion--and _upward!_--not only continued but increased.

That airplane of the bulbous body, the queerly slanted wings....

But the glimmering of realization vanished as a sickishly sweet odor
assailed his nostrils and sent its swift-moving tentacles upward to wrap
themself soothingly about his brain. But the sense of flight,
unbelievably swift, was present and recognizable, though all else eluded
him. He had the impression, however, that it was intended that all save
the most vagrant, most widely differentiated, impressions elude
him--that he should acquire only half pictures, which would therefore be
all the more terrible in retrospect.

The only impressions which were real were those of motion to the front,
and upward, and the sense of noiseless machinery, vibrating the whole,
nearby.

Then a distinct realization of the cessation of the sense of flying, and
a return, though in lesser degree, of the rising and falling of waves.
This latter sensation became less and less, though the feeling of
traveling downward continued. Prester Kleig knew that he was going down
into the sea again, down into it deeply.... Then that odor once more,
and the elusive memory.

Forward motion at last, in the depths, swift, forward motion, though
Prester Kleig could not even guess at the direction. Just swift motion,
and the mutter of voices, the giving of orders....

       *       *       *       *       *

Prester Kleig regained consciousness fully on the sands of the shore. He
sat up stiffly, staring out to sea. A storm was raging, and the sea was
an angry waste. No ship showed on the waters; the mad, tumbled sky above
it was either empty of planes or they had climbed to invisibility above
the clouds that raced and churned with the storm.

Out of the storm, almost at Prester Kleig's feet, dropped a small
airplane. Through the window a familiar face peered at Kleig. A
helmeted, begoggled figure opened the door and stepped out.

"Kleig, old man," said the flyer, "you gave me the right dope all right,
but I'll swear there isn't a wireless tower within a hundred miles of
this place! How did you manage it?"

"Kane, you're crazy, or I am, or...." But Prester Kleig could not go on
with the thought which had rushed through his brain with the numbing
impact of a blow. He grasped the hand of Carlos Kane, of the Domestic
Service, and the yellow flimsy Kane held out to him. It read simply:

"Shipwrecked. Am ashore at--" There followed grid coordinate map
readings. "Come at once, prepared to fly me to Washington." It was
signed "Kleig."

"Kane," said Kleig, "I did not send this message!"

What more was there to be said? Horror looked out of the eyes of Prester
Kleig, and was reflected in those of Carlos Kane. Both men turned,
peering out across the tumbled welter of waters.

Somewhere out there, tight-locked in the gloomy archives of the
Atlantic, was the secret of the message which had brought Carlos Kane to
Prester Kleig--and the agency which had sent it.




CHAPTER III

_Wings of To-morrow_


As Prester Kleig climbed into the enclosed passenger pit of the
monoplane--a Mayther--his ears seemed literally to be ringing with the
drumming, mighty voice of Moyen. But now that voice, instead of merely
speaking, rang with sardonic laughter. He had never heard the laughter
of Moyen, but he could guess how it would sound.

That airplane of the slanted wings, the bulbous, almost bulletlike
fuselage, what of it? It was simple, as Kleig looked back at his
memoried glimpse of it. The submarine was a metal fish made with human
hands; the airplane aped the birds. The strange ship which had caused
the destruction of the _Stellar_, was a combination fish and bird--which
merely aped nature a bit further, as anyone who had ever traversed
tropical waters would have instantly recognized.

But what did it portend? What ghastly terrors of Moyen roamed the deeps
of the Atlantic, of the Pacific, the oceans of the world? How close
were some of these to the United States?

The pale eyes of Moyen, he was sure, were already turned toward the
West.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prester Kleig sighed as he seated himself beside Carlos Kane. Then Kane
pressed one of the myriad of buttons on the dash, and Kleig lifted his
eyes to peer through the skylight, to where that single press of a
button had set in motion the intricate machinery of the helicopter.

A four-bladed fan lifted on a slender pedestal, sufficiently high above
the surface of the wing for the vanes to be free of the central
propeller. Then, automatically, the vanes became invisible, and the
Mayther lifted from the sandy beach as lightly, and far more straightly,
than any bird.

As the ship climbed away for the skies, and through the transparent
floor the beach and the Atlantic fell away below the ship, a sigh of
relief escaped Kleig. This was living! Up here one was free, if only for
a moment, and the swift wind of flight brushed all cobwebs from the
tired human brain. He watched the slender needle of the altimeter, as it
moved around the face of the dial as steadily as the hands of a clock,
around to thirty thousand, thirty-five, forty.

Then Carlos Kane, every movement as effortless as the flight of the
silvery winged Mayther, thrust forth his hand to the dash again, pressed
another button. Instantly the propellers vanished into a blur as the
vanes of the helicopter dropped down the slender staff and the vanes
themselves fitted snugly into their appointed notches atop the wing.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a second Carlos Kane glanced at the tiny map to the right of the
dash, and set his course. It was a matter of moments only, but while
Kane worked, Prester Kleig studied the instruments on the dash, for it
had been months since he had flown, save for his recent half-dreamlike
experience. There was a button which released the mechanism of the
deadly guns, fired by compressed air, all operated from the noiseless
motor, whose muzzles exactly cleared the tips of Mayther's wings, two
guns to each wing, one on the entering edge, one on the trailing edge,
fitted snugly into the adamant rigging.

Four guns which could fire to right or left, twin streams of lead, the
number of rounds governed only by the carrying power of the Mayther.
Prester Kleig knew them all: the guns in the wings, the guns which fired
through the three propellers, and the guns set two and two in the
fuselage, to right and left of the pits, which could be fixed either up
or down--all by the mere pressing of buttons. It was marvelous,
miraculous, yet even as Kleig told himself that this was so, he felt,
deep in the heart of him, that Moyen knew all about ships like these,
and regarded them as the toys of children.

Kane touched Kleig on the shoulder, signaling, indicating that the
atmosphere in the pits had been regulated to their new height, and that
they could remove their helmets and oxygen tanks without danger.

       *       *       *       *       *

With a sigh Prester Kleig sat back, and the two friends turned to face
each other.

"You certainly look done in, Kleig," said Kane sympathetically. "You
must have been through hell, and then some. Tell me about this Moyen;
that is, if you think you care to talk about him."

"Talk about him!" repeated Kleig. "Talk about him? It will be a relief!
There has been nothing, and nobody, on my mind save Moyen for weary
months on end. If I don't talk to someone about him, I'll go mad, if I'm
not mad already. Moyen? A monster with the face of an angel! What else
can one say about him? A devil and a saint, a brute whose followers
would go with him into hell's fire, and sing him hosannas as they were
consumed in agony! The greatest mob psychologist the world has ever
seen. He's a genius, Kane, and unless something is done, the Western
world, all the world, is doomed to sit at the feet, listen to the
commands, of Moyen!

"He isn't an Oriental; he isn't a European; he isn't negroid or Indian;
but there is something about him that makes one thing of all of these,
singly and collectively. His body is twisted and grotesque, and when one
looks at his face, one feels a desire to touch him, to swear eternal
fealty to him--until one looks into his pale eyes, eyes almost milky in
their paleness--and gets the merest hint of the thoughts which actuate
him. If he has a failing I did not find it. He does not drink,
gamble...."

"And women?" queried Kane, softly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kleig was madly in love with the sister of Kane, Charmion, and this
thing touched him nearest the heart, because Charmion was one of her
country's most famous beauties, about whom Moyen must already have
heard.

"Women?" repeated Kleig musingly, his black eyes troubled, haunted. "I
scarcely know. He has no love for women, only because he has no capacity
for any love save self-love. But when I think of him in this connection
I seem to see Moyen, grown to monster proportions, sitting on a mighty
throne, with nude women groveling at his feet, bathed in tears, their
long hair in mantles of sorrow, hiding their shamed faces! That sounds
wild, doesn't it? But it's the picture I get of Moyen when I think of
Moyen and of women. Many women will love him, and have, perhaps. But
while he has taken many, though I am only guessing here, he has given
_himself_ to none. Another thing: His followers--well, he sets no limits
to the lusts of his men, requiring only that every soldier be fit for
duty, with a body strong for hardship. You understand?"

Kane understood; and his face was very pale.

"Yes," he said, his voice almost a whisper, "I understand, and as you
speak of this man I seem to see a city in ruins, and hordes of men
marching, bloodstained men entering houses ... from which, immediately
afterward, come the screams of women ... terror-stricken women...."

He shuddered and could not go on for the very horror of the vision that
had come to him.

But Kleig stared at him as though he saw a ghost.

"Great God, Carl!" he gasped. "The same identical picture has been in my
mind, not once but a thousand times! I wonder...."

Was it an omen of the future for the West?

Deep in his soul Prester Kleig fancied he could hear the sardonic
laughter of the half-god, Moyen.

       *       *       *       *       *

A tiny bell rang inside the dash, behind the instruments. Kane had set
direction finders, had pressed the button which signaled the
Washington-control Station of the National Radio, thus automatically
indicating the exact spot above land, by grid-coordinates, where the
Mayther should start down for the landing.

An hour later they landed on the flat roof of the new Capitol Building,
sinking lightly to rest as a feather, nursed to a gentle landing by the
whirring vanes of the helicopter.

Prester Kleig, surrounded by uniformed guards who tried to shield him
from the gaze of news-gatherers crowded there on the roof-top, hurried
him to the stairway leading into the executive chambers, and through
these to the Secret Chamber which only a few men knew, and into which
not even Carlos Kane could follow Prester Kleig--yet.

But one man, one news-gatherer, had caught a glimpse of the face of
Kleig, and already he raced for the radio tower of his organization, to
blazon to the Western world the fact that Kleig had come back.




CHAPTER IV

_A Nation Waits in Dread_


As Prester Kleig, looking twice his forty years because of fatigue, and
almost nameless terrors through which he had passed, went to his
rendezvous, the news-gatherer, who shall here remain nameless, raced for
the Broadcasting Tower.

As Prester Kleig entered the Secret Room and at a signal all the many
doors behind him, along that interminable stairway, swung shut and were
tightly locked, the news-gatherer raced for the microphone and gave the
"priority" signal to the operator. Millions of people would not only
hear the words of the news-gatherer, but would see him, note the
expressions which chased one another across his face. For television was
long since an accomplished, everyday fact.

"Prester Kleig, of this government's Secret Service, has just returned
to the United Americas! Your informer has just seen him step from the
monoplane of Carlos Kane, atop the Capitol Building, and repair at once
to the Secret Room, closely guarded. But I saw his face, and though he
is under forty, he seems twice that. And you know now what this country
has only guessed at before--that he has seen Moyen. Moyen the half-man,
half-god, the enigma of the ages. What does Prester Kleig think of this
man? He doesn't say, for he dares not speak, yet. But your informer saw
his face, and it is old and twisted with terror! And--"

       *       *       *       *       *

That ended the discourse of the news-gatherer, and it was many hours
before the public really understood. For, with a new sentence but half
completed, the picture of the news-gatherer faded blackly off the
screens in a million homes, and his voice was blotted out by a humming
that mounted to a terrific appalling shriek! Some terrible agency, about
which people who knew their radio could only guess, had drowned out the
words of the news-gatherer, leaving the public stunned and bewildered,
almost groping before a feeling of terror which was all the more
unbearable because none could give it a name.

And the public had heard but a fraction of the truth--merely that Kleig
had come back. It had been the intention of the government to deny the
public even this knowledge, and it had; but knowledge of the denial
itself was public property, which filled the hearts of men and women all
through the Western Hemisphere with nameless dread. And over all this
abode of countless millions hovered the shadow of Moyen.

The government tried to correct the impression which the news-gatherer
had given out.

"Prester Kleig is back," said the radio, while the government speaker
tried, for the benefit of those who could see him, to smile
reassuringly. "But there is nothing to cause anyone the slightest
concern. He has seen Moyen, yes, and has heard him speak, but still
there is nothing to distress anyone, and the whole story will be given
to you as soon as possible. Kleig has gone into the Secret Room, yes,
but every operative of the government, when discussing business
connected with diplomatic relations with foreign powers, is received in
the Secret Room. No cause for worry!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was so easy to say that, and the speaker realized it, which was why
he could but with difficulty make his smile seem reassuring.

"Tell us the truth, and tell us quickly," might have been the voiceless
cries of those who listened and saw the face and fidgeting form of the
speaker. But the words were not spoken, because the people sensed a
hovering horror, a dread catastrophe beyond the power of words to
express--and so looked at one another in silence, their eyes wide with
dread, their hearts throbbing to suffocation with nameless foreboding.

So eyes were horror-haunted, and men walked, flew, and rode in fear and
trembling--while, down in the Secret Room, Prester Kleig and a dozen old
men, men wise in the ways of science and invention, wise in the ways of
men and of beasts, of Nature and the Infinite Outside, decided the fate
of the Nation.

That Secret Room was closed to every one. Not even the news-gatherers
could reach it; not even the all-seeing eye of the telephotograph
emblazoned to the world its secrets.

But _was_ it secret?

Perhaps Moyen, the master mobster, smiled when he heard men say so, men
who knew in their hearts that Moyen regarded other earthlings as
earthlings regard children and their toys. Did the eyes of Moyen gaze
even into the depths of the Secret Room, hundreds of feet below even the
documentary-treasure vaults of the Capitol?

       *       *       *       *       *

No one knew the answer to the question, but the radio, reporting the
return of Kleig, had given the public a distorted vision of an embodied
fear, and in its heart the public answered "Yes!" And what had drowned
out the voice of the radio-reporter?

No wonder that, for many hours, a nation waited in fear and trembling,
eyes filled with dread that was nameless and absolute, for word from the
Secret Room. Fear mounted and mounted as the hours passed and no word
came.

In that room Prester Kleig and the twelve old men, one of whom was the
country's President, held counsel with the man who had come back. But
before the spoken counsel had been held, awesome and awe-inspiring
pictures had flashed across the screen, invented by a third of the old
men, from which the world held no secrets, even the secrets of Moyen.

With this mechanism, guarded at forfeit of the lives of a score of men,
the men of the Secret Room could peer into even the most secret places
of the world. The old men had peered, and had seen things which had
blanched their pale cheeks anew. And when they had finished, and the
terrible pictures had faded out, a voice had spoken suddenly, like an
explosion, in the Secret Room.

"Well, gentlemen, are you satisfied that resistance is futile?"

Just the voice; but to one man in the Secret Room, and to the others
when his numbing lips spoke the name, it was far more than enough. For
not even the wisest of the great men could explain how, as they knew,
having just seen him there, a man could be in Madagascar while his voice
spoke aloud in the Secret Room, where even radio was barred!

The name on the lips of Prester Kleig!

"Moyen! Moyen!"




CHAPTER V

_Monsters of the Deep_


"Gentlemen," said Prester Kleig as he entered the Secret Room, where sat
the scientists and inventive geniuses of the Americas, "we haven't much
time, and I shall waste but little of it. Moyen is ready to strike, if
he hasn't already done so, as I believe. We will see in a matter of
seconds. Professor Maniel, we shall need, first of all, your apparatus
for returning the vibratory images of events which have transpired
within the last thirty-six hours.

"I wish to show those of you who failed to see it the sinking of the
_Stellar_, on which I was a passenger and, I believe, the only
survivor."

Professor Maniel strangely mouse-like save for the ponderous dome of his
forehead, stepped away from the circular table without a word. He had
invented the machine in question, and he was inordinately proud of it.
Through its use he could pick up the sounds, and the pictures, of events
which had transpired down the past centuries, from the tinkling of the
cymbals of Miriam to all the horror of the conflict men had called the
Great War, simply by drawing back from the ether, as the sounds fled
outward through space, those sounds and vibrations which he needed.

His science was an exact one, more carefully exact even than the
measurement of the speed of light, taking into consideration the
dispersion of sound and movement, and the element of time.

The interior of the Secret Room became dark as Maniel labored with his
minute machinery. Only behind the screen on the wall in rear of the
table was there light.

       *       *       *       *       *

The voice of Maniel began to drone as he thought aloud.

"There is a matter of but a few minutes difference in time between
Washington and the last recorded location of the _Stellar_. The sinking
occurred at ten-thirty last evening you say, Kleig? Ah, yes, I have it!
Watch carefully, gentlemen!"

So silent were the Secret Agents one could not even have heard the
breathing of one of them, for on the screen, misty at first, but
becoming moment by moment bolder of outline, was the face of a
storm-tossed sea. The liner was slower in forming, and was slightly out
of focus for a second or two.

"Ah," said Professor Maniel. "There it is!"

Through the sound apparatus came the roaring and moaning of a storm at
sea. On the screen the _Stellar_ rose high on the waves, dropped into
the trough, while spumes of black smoke spread rearward on the waters
from her spouting funnels. Figures were visible on her decks, figures
which seemed carved in bronze.

In the prow, every expression on his face plainly visible, stood Prester
Kleig himself, and as his picture appeared he was in the act of turning.

"Now," said Kleig himself, there in the Secret Room, "look off to the
left, gentlemen, a mile from the _Stellar_!"

A rustling sound as the scientists shifted in their places.

       *       *       *       *       *

They all saw it, and a gasp burst from their lips as though at a signal.
For, as the _Stellar_ seemed about to plunge off the shadowed screen
into the Secret Room, a flying thing had risen out of the sea--an
airplane with a bulbous body and queerly slanting wings.

At the same time, out of the mouth of the pictured figure of Prester
Kleig, clear and agonized as the tones of a bell struck in frenzy, the
words:

"Great God! Lower the boats! Lower the boats! For God's sake lower the
boats!"

In the Secret Room the real Prester Kleig spoke again.

"When the black streak leaves the nose of the plane, after it has
submerged, Professor Maniel," said Kleig softly, "slow your mechanism so
that we can see the whole thing in detail."

There came a grunted affirmative from Professor Maniel.

The nose of the pictured plane tilted over, diving down for the surface
of the sea.

"Now!" snapped Kleig. "Don't wait!"

Instantly the moving pictures on the screen reduced their speed, and the
plane appeared to stop its sudden seaward plunge and to drop down as
lightly as a feather. The wings of the thing moved forward slowly,
folding into the body of the dropping plane.

"They fold forward," said Kleig quietly, "so that the speed of the plane
in the take-off will snap them _backward_ into position for flying!"

       *       *       *       *       *

No one spoke, because the explanation was so obvious.

Slowly the airplane went down to the surface of the sea, with scarcely a
plume of spindrift leaping back after she had struck. She dropped to ten
feet below the surface of the water, a hundred yards off the starboard
beam of the _Stellar_, her blunt nose pointing squarely at the side of
the doomed liner.

"Now," said Kleig hoarsely, "watch closely, for God's sake!"

The liner rose and fell slowly. Out of the nose of the plane, which had
now become a tiny submarine, started a narrow tube of black, oddly like
the sepia of a giant squid. Straight toward the side of the liner it
went. Above the rail the Secret Agents could see the pictured form of
Prester Kleig, hand upraised. The black streak reached the side of the
_Stellar_.

It touched the metal plates, spreading upon impact, growing, enlarging,
to right and left, upward and downward, and where it touched the
_Stellar_ the black of it seemed to erase that portion of the ship. In
the slow motion every detail was apparent. At regular speed the blotting
out of the _Stellar_ would have been instantaneous.

Kleig saw himself rise slowly from the vanished rail, turning over and
over, going down to the sea. He almost closed his eyes, bit his lips to
keep back the cries of terror when he saw the others aboard the liner
rise, turn over and over, and fly in all directions like jackstraws in a
high wind.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship was erased from beneath passengers and crew, and passengers and
crew fell into the sea. Out of the depths, from all directions, came the
starving denizens of the sea--starving because liners now were so few.

"That's enough of that, Professor," snapped Kleig. "Now jump ahead
approximately eight hours, and see if you can pick up that aero-sub
after it dropped me on the Jersey Coast."

The picture faded out quickly, the screaming of doomed human beings,
already hours dead, called back to apparent living by the genius of
Maniel died away, and for a space the screen was blank.

Then, the sea again, storm-tossed as before, shifting here and there as
Maniel sought in the immensity of sea and sky for the thing he desired.

"Two hundred miles south by east of New York City," he droned. "There it
is, gentlemen!"

They all saw it then, in full flight, eight thousand feet above the
surface of the Atlantic, traveling south by east at a dizzy rate of
speed.

"Note," said Kleig, "that it keeps safely to the low altitudes, in order
to escape the notice of regular air traffic."

No one answered.

The eyes of the Secret Agents were on that flashing, bulbous-bodied
plane of the strange wings. It appeared to be heading directly for some
objective which must be reached at top speed.

       *       *       *       *       *

For fifteen minutes the flight continued. Then the plane tilted over and
dived, and at an altitude still of three thousand feet, the wings
slashed forward, clicking into their notches in the sides of the bulbous
body, with a sound like the ratchets on subway turnstiles, and, holding
their breath, the Secret Agents watched it plummet down to the sea. It
was traveling with terrific speed when it struck, yet it entered the
water with scarcely a splash.

Then, for the first time, an audible gasp, as that of one person, came
from the lips of the Secret Agents. For now they could see the objective
of the aero-sub. A monster shadow in the water, at a depth of five
hundred feet. A shadow which, as Maniel manipulated his instruments,
became a floating underwater fortress, ten times the size of any
submarine known to the Americas.

Sporting like porpoises about this held-in-suspension fortress were
myriads of other aero-subs, maneuvering by squadrons and flights,
weaving in and out like schools of fish. The plane which had bourne
Prester Kleig churned in between two of the formations, and vanished
into the side of the motionless monster of the deep.

The striking of a deep sea bell, muted by tons and tons of water,
sounded in the Secret Room.

"Don't turn it off, Maniel," said Kleig. "There's more yet!"

And there was, for the sound of the bell was a signal. The aero-subs,
darting outward from the side of the floating fortress like fish darting
out of seaweed, were plunging up toward the surface of the Atlantic.
Breathlessly the Secret Agents watched them.

They broke water like flying fish, and their wings shot backward from
their notches in the myriad bulbous bodies to click into place in flying
position as the scores of aero-subs took the air above the invisible
hiding places of the mother submarine.

       *       *       *       *       *

At eight thousand feet the aero-subs swung into battle formation and, as
though controlled by word of command, they maneuvered there like one
vast machine of a central control--beautiful as the flight of swallows,
deadly as anything that flew.

The Secret Agents swept the cold sweat from their brows, and sighs of
terror escaped them all.

At that moment came the voice, loud in the Secret Room, which Kleig at
least immediately recognized:

"Well, gentlemen, are you satisfied that resistance is futile?"

And Kleig whispered the name, over and over again.

"Moyen! Moyen!"

It was Prester Kleig, Master of the Secret Room, who was the first to
regain control after the nerve-numbing question which, asked in far
Madagascar, was heard by the Agents in the Secret Room.

"No!" he shouted. "No! No! Moyen, in the end we will beat you!"

Only silence answered, but deep in the heart of Prester Kleig sounded a
burst of sardonic laughter--the laughter of Moyen, half-god of Asia.
Then the voice again:

"The attack is beginning, gentlemen! Within an hour you will have
further evidence of the might of Moyen!"




CHAPTER VI

_Vanishing Ships_


Prester Kleig, ordered to Madagascar from the Secret Room, had been
merely an operative, honored above others in that he had been one of
the few, at that time, ever to visit the Secret Room. Now, however,
because he had walked closer to Moyen than anyone else, he assumed
leadership almost by natural right, and the men who had once deferred to
him took orders from him.

"Gentlemen," he snapped, while the last words of Moyen still hung in the
air of the Secret Room, "we must fight Moyen from here. The best brains
in the United Americas are gathered here, and if Moyen can be
beaten--_if_ he can be beaten--he will be beaten from the Secret Room!"

A sigh from the lips of Professor Maniel. The President of the United
Americas nodded his head, as though he too mutely gave authority into
the hands of Prester Kleig. The other Secret Agents shifted slightly,
but said nothing.

"I have been away a year," said Kleig, "as you know, and many things
have come into regular use since I left. Professor Maniel's machine for
example, upon which he was working when I departed under orders. There
will be further use for it in our struggle with Moyen. Professor, will
you kindly range the ocean, beginning at once, and see how many of these
monsters of Moyen we have to contend with?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Professor Maniel turned back to his instruments, which he fondled with
gentle, loving hands.

"We have nothing with which to combat the attacking forces of Moyen,"
went on Kleig, "save antiquated airplanes, and such obsolete warships as
are available. These will be mere fodder for the guns, or rays, or
whatever it is that Moyen uses in his aero-subs. Thousands, perhaps
millions, of human lives will be lost; but better this than that Moyen
rule the West! Better this than that our women be given into the hands
of this mob as spoils of war!"

From the Secret Agents a murmur of assent.

And then, that voice again, startling, clear, with the slightest
suggestion of some Oriental accent, in the Secret Room.

"Do not depend too much, gentlemen," it said, "upon your antiquated
warships! See, I am merciful, in that I do not allow you to send them
against me loaded with men to be slaughtered or drowned! Professor
Maniel, I would ask you to turn that plaything of yours and gaze upon
the fleet of obsolete ships anchored in Hampton Roads! In passing,
Professor, I venture to guess that the secret of how I am able to talk
with you gentlemen, here in your Secret Room, is no secret at all to
you. Now look!"

The Secret Agents gasped again, in consternation.

From the white lips of mouselike Maniel came mumbled words, even as his
hands worked with lightning speed.

"His machine is simply a variation of my own. And, gentlemen,
compatriots, with it he could as easily project himself, bodily, here
into the room with us!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Something like a suppressed scream from one of the men present. A cold
hand of ice about the heart of Prester Kleig. But the words of Professor
Maniel were limned on the retina of his brain in letters of fire.
Suppose Moyen _were_ to project himself into the Secret Room....

But he would not. He was no fool, and even these Secret Agents, most of
whom were old and no longer strong, would have torn him limb from limb.
But those words of Maniel set whirling once more, and in a new
direction, the thoughts of Prester Kleig.

"Mr. President, gentlemen...." It was the voice of Professor Maniel.

All eyes turned again to the screen upon which the professor worked his
miracles, which today were commonplaces, which yesterday had been
undreamed of. Every Secret Agent recognized the outlines of Hampton
Roads, with Norfolk and its towering buildings in the background, and
the obsolete warships riding silently at anchor in the roadstead.

For three years they had been there, while a procrastinating Cabinet,
Congress and Senate had debated their permanent disposal. They
represented millions of dollars in money, and were utterly worthless.
Prester Kleig, looking at them now, could see them putting out to sea,
loaded with brave-visaged men, volunteering to go to sure destruction to
feed the rapacity of Moyen's hordes. Men going out to sea in tubs,
singing....

But these ships were silent. No plumes of smoke from their funnels. Like
floating mausoleums, filled with dead hopes, shells of past and departed
glories.

The beating of waves against their sides could plainly be heard. The
anchor chains squeaked rustily in the hawse-holes. Wind sighed through
regal, towering superstructures, and no man walked the decks of any one
of them.

       *       *       *       *       *

With bated breath the Secret Agents watched.

Why had Moyen bidden them turn their attention to these shells of
erstwhile naval grandeur?

This time no gasps broke from the lips of the Secret Agents. Not even
the sound of breathing could be heard. Just the sighing of wind through
the superstructures of a hundred ships, the whispering of waves against
rusted bulkheads.

Almost imperceptibly at first the towering dreadnought in the foreground
began to move! Slowly, the water swirling about her, she backed away
from her anchor, tightening the curve of the anchor chain! Water
quivered about the point of the chain's contact with the waves!

Quickly the eyes of the Secret Agents swept along the street of ships.
The same backward motion, of dragging against their anchor chains, was
visible at the bow of each warship!

With not a soul aboard them, the ships were waking into strange and
awesome life, dragging at their anchors, like hounds pulling at leashes
to be free and away!

"How are they doing it?" It was almost a whisper from the President.

"Some electro-magnetic force, sir!" stated Prester Kleig. "Professor
Blaine, that is your province! Please note what is happening, and advise
us at once if you see how they are doing it!"

A grunt of affirmation from surly, obese Professor Blaine.

       *       *       *       *       *

All eyes turned back again to the miracle of the moving ships. One by
one, with crashes which echoed and re-echoed through the Secret Room,
the anchor chains of the dreadnoughts parted. The ends of them swung
from the prows of the warships, while the severed portions splashed into
the Roads, and the waters hid them from view.

The great dreadnought in the foreground swung slowly about until her
prow was pointed in the direction of the open sea, and though no sea was
running, no smoke rose from her funnels, she got slowly, ponderously
under way, and started out the Roads. Behind her, in formation, the
other ships swung into line.

In a matter of seconds, faster than any of these vessels had ever
traveled before, they were racing in column for the open Atlantic. And
from the sound apparatus came wails and shrieks of terror, the
lamentations of men and women frightened as they had never been
frightened before.

The shores behind the moving column of ships was moment by moment
growing blacker with people--a black sea of people, whose faces were
white as chalk with terror.

But on, out to sea, moved the column of brave ships.

A new note entered into the picture, as from all sides airplanes of many
makes swooped in, and swept back and forth over the moving ships, while
hooded heads looked out of pits, and faces of pilots were aghast at
what they saw.

       *       *       *       *       *

A ghost column of ships, moving out to sea, speed increasing moment by
moment unbelievably. Even now, five minutes after the first dreadnought
had started seaward, the wake of each ship spread away on either hand in
the two sides of a watery triangle whose walls were a dozen feet
high--racing for the shores with all the sullen majesty of tidal waves.

The crowds gave back, and their screams rose into the air in a
frightened roar of appalling sound.

Even now, so rapidly did the warships travel, many of the planes could
throttle down, so that they flew directly above the heaving decks of the
runaway warships.

"Get word to them!" cried Prester Kleig suddenly. "Get word to them that
if they follow the ships out to sea not a pilot will escape alive!"

One of the Secret Agents rose and hurried from the Secret Room,
traveling at top speed for the first of the many doors enroute to the
broadcasting tower from which all the planes could be reached at once.
Prester Kleig turned back to the magic screen of Maniel.

The warships, water thrown aside by the lifting thrust of their forefeet
in mountains that raced landward with ever-increasing fury, were
clearing the Roads and swinging south by east, heading into the wastes
of the Atlantic. As they cleared the land, and open water for unnumbered
miles lay ahead, the speed of the mighty ships increased to a point
where they rode as high on the water as racing launches, and the
creaking and groaning of their rusty bolts and spars were a continual
paean of protest in the sound apparatus accompanying the showing of the
miracle on the screen.

"They're heading straight for the spot where that super-submarine lies!"
said the President, and no one answered him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prester Kleig, watching, was racing over in his mind what he could
recall of his country's armament. Warships were useless, as was being
proved here before his eyes. But there still remained airplanes, in
countless numbers, which could be diverted from ocean travel and from
routine business, to battle this menace of Moyen.

But....

He shuddered as he pictured in his mind's eye the meeting of his
country's flower of flying manhood with the monsters of Moyen.

His eyes, as he thought, were watching the racing of those ocean
greyhounds, out to sea. They were now out of sight of land, and still
some of the planes followed them.

A half hour passed, and then....

The American pilots, in obedience to the radio signals, turning back
from this strange phenomenon of the ghost column of capital ships.

Simultaneously, out of the sky dead ahead, dropped the first flight of
Moyen's aero-subs.

At the same moment the mysterious power which had dragged the ships to
sea was withdrawn, and the warships, with no hands to guide them, swung
whither they willed, and floated in as many directions as there were
ships, under their forward momentum. There were a score of collisions,
and some of the ships were in sinking condition even before the
aero-subs began their labors.

       *       *       *       *       *

The remaining ships floated high out of the water, because they carried
no ballast, and from all sides the aero-subs of Moyen settled to the
task of destruction--destruction which was simply a warning of what was
to come: Moyen's manner of proving to the Americas the fact that he was
all-powerful.

"God, what fools!" cried Prester Kleig.

The rearmost of the American aviators had looked back, had seen the
first of the aero-subs drop down among the doomed ships. Instantly he
turned out to sea again, signalling as he did so to the nearest other
planes. And in spite of the radio warning a hundred planes answered that
signal and swept back to investigate this new mystery.

"They're going to death!" groaned the President.

"Yes," said Kleig, softly, "but it saves us ordering others to death.
Perhaps we may learn something of value as we watch them die!"




CHAPTER VII

_Golden Oblivion_


"This," said Prester Kleig, as coldly precise as a judge pronouncing
sentence of death, "will precipitate the major engagement with Moyen's
forces. The fools, to rush in like this, when they have been warned! But
even so, they are magnificent!"

The pilots of the aero-subs must instantly have noticed the return of
the American pilots, for some of the aero-subs which had dropped to the
ocean's surface rose again almost instantly, and swept into battle
formation above the drifting hulks of the warships.

The Americans were wary. They drew together like frightened chickens
when a hawk hovers above them, and watched the activities of the
aero-subs, every move of each one being at the same time visible and
audible to the Secret Agents in the Capitol's Secret Room.

The aero-subs which had submerged singled out their particular prey
among the floating ships, and the Secret Agents, trying to see how each
separate act of destruction was accomplished, watched the aero-sub in
the foreground, which happened to be concentrating on the dreadnought
which had led the ghost-march of the warships out to sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

The aero-sub circled the swaying dreadnought as a shark circles a wreck,
and through the walls of the aero-sub the watchers in the Secret Room
could see the four-man crew of the thing. Grim faced men, men of the
Orient they plainly were, coldly concentrating on the work in hand.
Their faces were those of men who are merciless, even brutal, with
neither heart nor compassion of any kind for weaker ones. One man
maneuvered the aero-sub, while the other three concentrated on the
apparatus in the nose of the hybrid vessel.

"See," spoke Prester Kleig again, "if you can tell what manner of ray
they use, and how it is projected. That's your province, General
Munson!"

From the particular Secret Agent named, who was expert for war in the
membership of the Secret Room, came a short grunt of affirmation. A few
murmured words.

"I'll be able to tell more about it when I see how they operate when
they are flying. That black streak under water ... well, I must see it
out of the water, and then...."

But here General Munson ended, for the aero-sub which they were
especially watching had got into action against the dreadnought.

The aero-sub was motionless and submerged just off the port bow of the
dreadnought. The three men inside the aero-sub were working swiftly and
efficiently with the complicated but minute machinery in the nose of
their transport.

"It can be controlled, then, this ray," said Munson, interrupting
himself. "Watch!"

       *       *       *       *       *

From the nose of the aero-sub leaped, like a streak of black lightning,
that ebon agency of death. It struck the prow of the battleship--and the
prow, as far aft as the well-deck, simply vanished from sight,
disintegrated! It was as though it had never been, and for a second, so
swiftly had it happened, the water of the ocean held the impression that
portion of the warship had made--as an explosive leaves a crater in the
soil of earth!

Then a drumming roar as the sea rushed in to claim its own. The roaring,
as of a Niagara, as the waters claimed the ship, rushing down
passageways into the hold, possessing the warship with all the
invincible, speedy might of the sea.

Mingled with this roaring was the shivering, vibratory sound which
Prester Kleig had experienced in his half-dream. The sound was so
intense that it fairly rocked the Secret Room to its furthermost cranny.

For a second the dreadnought, wounded to death, seemed to shudder, to
hesitate, then to move backward as though wincing from her death blow.
It was the pound of the inrushing waters which did it. Then up came the
stern of the mighty ship, as she started her last long plunge into the
depths.

But attention had swung to another warship, on the starboard beam of
which another aero-sub had taken up position. Again the ebon streak of
death from her blunt nose, smashing in and through the warship, directly
amidships, cutting her in twain as though the black streak had been a
pair of shears, the warship a strip of tissue paper.

Up went the prow and the stern of this one, and together, the water
separating the two parts as it rushed into the gap, the broken warship
went down to its final resting place.

       *       *       *       *       *

Abruptly Professor Maniel swung back to the American planes which had
come back to investigate the activities of the aero-subs, and on the
screen, in the midst of the battle formation into which the pilots had
swept to hurriedly, the Secret Agents could see the faces of those
pilots....

White as chalk with fear, mouths open in gasping unbelief. One man, a
pale-faced youth, was the first to recover. He stared around at his
compatriots, and plainly through the sound apparatus in the Secret Room
came his swift radio signals.

"Attack! Who will follow me against these people?"

His signals were very plain. So, too, were the answers of the other
pilots, and the heart of Prester Kleig swelled with pride as he listened
to the answering signals--and counted them, discovered that every last
pilot there present elected to stay with this youngster, to avenge their
country for this contemptuous insult which had been put upon her by the
rape of Hampton Roads.

Into swift formation they swept, and with these planes--all planes in
use were required by franchise of operating companies to be equipped for
the emergencies of war--swung into an echelon formation, the youthful
pilot leading by mutual consent.

They swept at full speed toward the warships, four of which had by this
time been sent to destruction--one of which had appeared to vanish
utterly in the space of a single heartbeat, so quickly that for a second
or two the shape of its bilge, the bulge of its keel, was visible in the
face of the deep--and openly challenged the aero-subs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Muzzles of compressed air guns projected from the wing-tips of the
planes. Buttons were pressed which elevated the muzzles of guns arranged
to fire upward from either side the fighting pits, twin guns that were
fired downward from the same central magazine--the only guns in use in
the Americas which fired in opposite directions at the same time.

But for a few moments the aero-subs refused combat. Their speed was
terrific, dazzling. They eluded the thrusts, the dives and plunges of
the American ships as easily as a swallow eludes the dive of a buzzard.

It came to Prester Kleig, however, that the aero-subs were merely
playing with the Americans; that when they elected to move, the planes
would be blasted from the sky as easily as the warships were being
erased from the surface of the Atlantic.

One by one, as methodically as machines, the aero-sub pilots blasted the
warships into nothingness. They had their orders, and they went about
their performance with a rigidity of discipline which astounded the
Secret Agents. They had been ordered to destroy the warships, and they
were doing that first--would go on to completion of this task, no matter
how many American planes buzzed about their ears.

But one by one as the warships sank, the aero-subs which had either sunk
or erased them made the surface and leaped into space with a snapping
back of wings that was horribly businesslike as to sound, and climbed up
to take part in the fight against the American planes, which must
inevitably come.

       *       *       *       *       *

The last warship, cut squarely in two from stem to stern along her
center, as though split thus by a bolt of lightning, fell apart like
pieces of cake, and splashed down, sinking away while the spume of her
disintegration rolled back from her fallen sides in white-crested waves.

"It exemplifies the policies of Moyen," said Prester Kleig, "for his
conquest of the world is a conquest of destruction."

The last aero-sub took to the sky, and the Americans rushed into battle
with fine disregard for what they knew must be certain death. They were
not fools, exactly, and they had seen, but not understood, the manner in
which those gallant old hounds of the sea had been erased from
existence.

But in they went, plunging squarely into the heart of the aero-subs'
leading formation, which formation consisted of three aero-subs, flying
a wing and wing formation.

The young American signaled with upraised hand, and the American pilots
made their first move. Every plane started rolling, at dazzling speed,
on the axis of its fuselage, while bullets spewed from the guns that
fired through the propellers.

Bullets smashed into the leading aero-subs, with no apparent effect,
though for a second it seemed that the central aero-sub of the leading
formation hesitated for a moment in flight.

Then, swift as had that black streak flashed from the nose of aero-subs
submerged, a streak darted from the nose of the central aero-sub, and
glistened in the sun like molten gold!

       *       *       *       *       *

It touched the youngster who had called for volunteers for his attack
against this strange enemy. It touched his plane--and the plane vanished
instantly, while for a fraction of a second the pilot was visible in his
place, in the posture of sitting, hand on a row of buttons which did not
exist, head forward slightly as he aimed guns that had vanished.

Then the pilot, still living, apparently unhurt, plunged down eight
thousand feet to the sea. The water geysered up as he struck, then
closed over the spot, and the gallant American youngster had become the
first victim in battle of the monsters of Moyen.

Victim of a slender lancet of what seemed to be golden lightning.

"He could have killed the pilot aloft there," came quietly from Munson,
"but he chose to pull his plane away from around him! Their control of
the ray is miraculous!"

As though to confirm the statement of Munson, the leading aero-sub
struck again, a second plane. The plane vanished, but from the spot
where it had flown, not even a bit of metal or of man sufficiently large
to be seen by the delicate recording instruments of Maniel dropped out
of the sky.

The ray of gold was a ray of oblivion if the minions of Moyen willed.




CHAPTER VIII

_Charmion_


"Prester Kleig," came suddenly into the Secret Room the voice of far
distant Moyen, "you will at once make a change in your rules regarding
the admission of other than Secret Agents to the Secret Room. You will
at once see that Charmion Kane, sister of your friend, is allowed to
enter!"

"God Almighty!" A cry of agony from the lips of Prester Kleig. He had
not forgotten Charmion, but simply had had to move so swiftly that he
had put her out of his mind. For a year he had not seen her, and an hour
or two more could not matter greatly.

"And her brother Carlos," went on the voice, "see that he, too, is
admitted. I wish, for certain reasons, that Charmion come unharmed
through the direct attack I am about to make against your country. I
confess that, save for this ability to speak to you, I am unable to work
any damage to the Secret Room, which is therefore the safest place for
Charmion Kane! Carlos Kane is being spared because he is her brother!"

There was no mistaking the import of this sinister command from Moyen.
He had singled out Charmion, the best beloved of Prester Kleig, for his
attentions, and that he was sure of the success of his attack against
the United Americas was proved by the calm assurance of his voice, and
the fact that, concentrating on the attack as he must be, he still found
time for a thought of Charmion Kane.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hand of ice which had seldom been absent from the heart of Kleig
since he had first seen and heard the voice of Moyen gripped him anew.
Blood pounded maddeningly in his temples. Cold sweat bathed his body.

But the rest of the Secret Agents, save to freeze into immobility when
the hated voice spoke, gave no sign. They had worries of their own, for
no instructions had been given that they bring their own loved ones into
the sanctuary of the Secret Room.

As though answering the thoughts of the others, the hated voice spoke
again.

"I regret that I cannot arrange for sanctuary for the loved ones of all
of you, for you are gallant antagonists; why save the few, when the many
must perish? For I know you will not surrender, however much I have
proved to you that I am invincible. But Charmion Kane must be saved."

"God!" whispered Kleig. "God!"

Then spoke General Munson.

"I think this ray which the Moyenites use is a variation of the
principle used in the intricate machinery of Professor Maniel, though
how they render it visible I do not know. But it doesn't matter, and may
be only a blind! You'll note that when the black streak, or the golden
ray, strikes anything that thing instantly disintegrates. A certain
pitch of resonance will break a pane of glass. It's a matter of
vibration, solely, wherein the molecules composing any object animate or
inanimate, are hurled in all directions instantaneously.

"Professor Maniel's apparatus, the Vibration-Retarder, is able to
recapture the vibrations, speeding outward endlessly through space, and
to reconstruct, and _draw back_ to visibility the objects destroyed by
this visible vibratory ray, whatever it is. This problem, then, falls
into the province of Professor Maniel!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Through the heart and soul of Prester Kleig there suddenly flowed a
great surge of hope.

"General Munson, if you will operate the machinery of the
Vibration-Retarder, I wish to talk with Professor Maniel!"

Instantly, efficiently, without a word in reply to the eager command of
Prester Kleig, General Munson relieved Professor Maniel at the apparatus
which Maniel called the Vibration-Retarder, his invention which he had
combined with audible teleview to complete this visual miracle of the
Secret Room. Professor Maniel stepped to where Prester Kleig was
sitting.

Prester Kleig put fingers to his lips for silence, and an expression of
surprise crossed the wrinkled dead-white face of the Professor.

Before Kleig could speak, however, there came a signal from somewhere
outside the Secret Room, a signal which said that the doors were being
opened and that a personage was coming. The Secret Agents looked at one
another in surprise, for every man who had a right to be inside the
Secret Room was already present.

"I know," said Kleig, his face a mask of terror. "It is Charmion and
Carlos Kane! Moyen, the devil, has managed to make sure of obedience to
his orders!"

The Secret Agents turned back to the screen, upon which the view of the
first aerial brush of the American flyers with the minions of Moyen, in
their aero-subs, was drawing to a terrible close.

For, as the aero-sub commanders had played with the warships, which had
no human beings aboard them, so now did they play with the planes of the
Americas.

       *       *       *       *       *

One American flyer, startled into a frenzy by the fate of his fellows,
put his helicopter into action, and leaped madly out of the midst of the
battle. Instantly an aero-sub zoomed, skyward after him. Again that
golden streak of light from the nose of an aero-sub, and the helicopter
vanes and the slender staff upon whose tip they whirled vanished, shorn
short off above the vane-grooves in the top of the wing!

The plane dropped away, fluttering like a falling leaf for a moment,
before the aviator started his three propellers again.

A cheer broke from the lips of Prester Kleig as he watched. The
commander of that particular aero-sub, apparently contemptuous of this
flyer who had tried to cut out of the fight, allowed him to fall away
unmolested--and the American, driven berserk by the casual, contemptuous
treatment accorded him by this strange enemy, zoomed the second his
propellers whirred into top-speed action, and raced up the sky toward
the belly of the aero-sub.

"If only the aero-sub has a blind spot!" cried Prester Kleig.

       *       *       *       *       *

In that instant a roaring crash sounded in the Secret Room as the
American plane, going full speed, crashed, propellers foremost, into the
belly of the aero-sub.

And the aero-sub, whose brothers had seemed until this moment
invincible, did not escape the wrath of the American--though the
American went into oblivion with it!

For, welded together, American plane and aero-sub started the eight
thousand feet plunge downward to the sea!

"Watch!" shrieked Munson. "Watch!"

As the aero-sub and the plane plunged down through the formation of
fighters, the aero-sub pilots saw it, and they fled in wild dismay and
at top speed from their falling compatriot. Why? For a moment it was not
apparent. And then it was.

For out of the body of the doomed aero-subs came sheets of golden flame!
Not the flames of fire, but the golden sheen of that streak which the
aero-subs had used against the American planes already out of the fight!
The American flyer had crashed into the container, whatever it was, that
harnessed the agency through which the minions of Moyen had destroyed
the _Stellar_, and the battleships raped from Hampton Roads!

"It is liquid, then!" shrieked Munson.

And it seemed to be. For a second the golden mantle, strange,
awe-inspiring, bathed and rendered invisible the aero-sub and the plane
which had slain her. Then the golden flame vanished utterly,
instantly--and in the air where it had been there was nothing! The
aero-sub was gone, and the plane whose mad charge had erased her.

"Her own death dealing agency destroyed her!" shrieked Munson. "And the
other aero-subs cut away from the fight to save themselves, because they
too carry death and destruction within them!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the inner door of the Secret Room opened and two people entered.
One of them, a dazzling beauty with glorious black hair and the tread of
a princess, a picture of perfection from jeweled sandals to coiffured
hair, was Charmion Kane. Behind her came her brother, whose face was
chalky white. But Charmion, as she crossed to Kleig and kissed him,
while her eyes were luminous with love, held her head proudly high,
imperious.

"I know," she said softly to Kleig, "and I am not afraid! I know you
will prevent it!"

Kleig waved the two to chairs and turned again to Professor Maniel.

On a piece of paper he wrote swiftly, using a mode of shorthand known
only to the Secret Agents.

"Professor," he wrote feverishly, "can you reverse the process used in
your Vibration-Retarder? Tell me with your eyes, for Moyen may even know
this writing, and I am sure he hears what we say here, may even be able
to see us?"

Professor Maniel started and stared deeply into the eyes of Prester
Kleig. His face grew thoughtful. He brushed his slender hand over the
massive dome of his brow. Hope burned high in the heart of Prester
Kleig.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, despite Kleig's instructions to answer merely by the expression in
his eyes, Professor Maniel leaned forward and wrote quickly on the piece
of paper Kleig had used.

"Two hours!"

Nothing else, no explanations; but Prester Kleig knew. Maniel believed
he could do it, but he needed two hours in which to perfect his theory
and make it workable. Kleig knew that had he been able to do it in two
years, or two decades, it still would have been in the nature of a
miracle.

But two hours....

And Moyen had said that he was preparing to attack at once.

In two hours Moyen, unless the Americas fought against him with every
resource at their command, could depopulate half the Western World.
Kleig looked back to the screen.

There was not a single American plane in the sky above the graveyard of
those vanished warships. And the aero-subs, swift flying as the wind,
were racing back to the mother ship, scores of miles away.

Munson worked with the Vibration-Retarder, the Sound-and-Vision devices,
ranging the sea off the coast to either side of that huge, suspended
fortress which was the mother submarine of the aero-subs.

Gasps of terror, though the sight was not unexpected, broke from the
lips of every person in the Secret Room.

For super-monsters of Moyen were moving to the attack.




CHAPTER IX

_Flowers of Martyrdom_


For a minute the Secret Agents were appalled by the air of might of the
deep-sea monsters of Moyen, brought bodily, almost into the Secret Room
by the activities of General Munson at the Sound-and-Vision apparatus.

Off the coast, miles away, yet looming moment by moment larger,
indicating the deceptively swift speed of the monsters, were scores of
the great under-water fortresses, traveling toward the coast of the
United Americas in a far-flung formation, each submarine separated from
its neighbor to right and left by something like a hundred miles, easy
cruising radius for the little aero-subs carried inside the monsters.

That each submarine did carry such spawn of Satan was plainly seen, for
as the great submarines moved landward, scores of aero-subs sported
gleefully about the mother ships. There was no counting the number of
them.

Two hours Maniel needed for his labors, which meant that for two hours
the flower of the country's manhood must try to hold in check the mighty
hordes of Moyen.

"Somewhere there," stated Prester Kleig, "in one or the other of those
monsters, is Moyen himself. I know that since he wished Charmion saved
for his attentions! Do your work with your apparatus, Munson, while I go
out to the radio tower to broadcast an appeal for volunteers.
Charmion--Carlos...."

But Prester Kleig found that he could not continue. Not that it was
necessary, for Charmion and Carlos knew what was in his mind. Charmion
was a lady of vast intelligence, from whom life's little ironies had not
been hidden--and Kane and Kleig had already discussed the activities of
Moyen where women were concerned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prester Kleig hurried to the Central Radio Tower, and as he passed
through each of the many doors leading out to the roof of the new
Capitol Building the guards at the doors left to form a guard for him,
at this moment the most precious man in the country, because he knew
best the terrible trials which faced her.

The country was in turmoil. It seemed almost impossible that a whole day
had passed since Prester Kleig had returned and entered the Secret Room.
In the meantime a fleet of battleships had been drawn by some mysterious
agency out to sea from Hampton Roads, and a fleet of fighting planes
which had followed the ghost column outward had not returned.

News-gatherers had spread the stories, distorted and garbled, across the
western continents, and throughout the western confederacy men, women
and children lived in the throes of the greatest fear that had ever
gripped them. Fear held them most because they could not give the cause
of their fear a name--save one....

Moyen.... And the name was on the lips of everyone, and frenzied woman
stilled their squalling babes with its mention.

No word yet from the Secret Room, but Prester Kleig had scarcely
appeared from it than someone started the radio signal which informed
the frenzied, waiting world of the west that information, exact if
startling, would now be forthcoming.

In millions of homes, in thousands of high-flying planes, listeners
tuned in at the clear-all hum.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prester Kleig wasted no time in preliminaries.

"Prester Kleig speaking. We are threatened by Moyen, with scores of
monster submarines, each a mother ship for scores of aero-subs,
combinations of airplanes and miniature submarines. They are moving up
on our eastern coast, from some secret base which we have not yet
located. They are equipped with death dealing instruments of which we
have but the most fragmentary knowledge, and for two hours I must call
upon all flyers to combat the menace; until the Secret Agents,
especially Professor Maniel, have had opportunity to counteract the
minions of Moyen.

"Flyers of the United Americas! In the name of our country I ask that
volunteers gather on the eastern coast, each flyer proceeding at once to
the nearest coast-landing, after dropping all passengers. Your
commanders have already been named by your various organizations, as
required by franchise, and orders for the movement of the entire winged
armada will come from this station. However, the orders will simply be
this: Hold Moyen's forces at bay for a period of two hours! And know
that many of you go to certain death, and make your own decisions as to
whether you shall volunteer!"

This ended, Prester Kleig, excitement mounting high, hurried back to the
Secret Room.

Now the public knew, and as the American public is given to doing, it
steadied down when it knew the worst. Fear of the unknown had changed
the public into a myriad-souled beast gone berserk. Now that knowledge
was exact men grew calm of face, determined, and women assumed the
supporting role which down the ages has been that of brave women,
mothers of men.

       *       *       *       *       *

A period of silence for a time after Prester Kleig's pronouncement.

As he entered the first door leading into the Secret Room, Carlos Kane
met and passed him with a smile.

"You called for winged volunteers, did you not, Kleig?" he asked
quietly.

Kleig nodded. "You are going?" he said.

"Yes. It is my duty."

No other words were necessary, as the men shook hands. Prester Kleig
going on to the Secret Room, Carlos Kane going out to join the mighty
armada which must fight against the minions of Moyen.

The words of Prester Kleig were heard by the pilots of the sky-lanes.
The passenger pits, equipped with self-opening parachutes which dropped
jumpers in series of long falls in order to acquire swift but accurate
and safe landing--they opened at intervals in long falls of two thousand
feet, stayed the fall, then closed again, so that drops were almost
continuous until the last four hundred feet--and pilots, swiftly making
up their minds, dropped their passengers, banked their planes, and raced
into the east.

       *       *       *       *       *

All over the Americas pilots dropped their passengers and their loads if
their franchises called for the carrying of freight, and banked about to
take part in the first skirmish with the Moyenites.

Dropping figures almost darkened the sky as passengers plunged downward
after the startling signal from Washington. Flowers, which were the
umbrellas of chutes, opened and closed like breathing winged orchids,
letting their burdens safely to earth.

And clouds and fleets of airplanes came in from all directions to land,
in rows and rows which were endless, wing and wing, along the eastern
coast.

Prester Kleig had scarcely entered the Secret Room than the hated voice
of Moyen again broke upon the ears of the machinelike Secret Agents.

"This is madness, gentlemen! My people will annihilate yours!"

But, since time for speech had passed, not one of the Secret Agents made
answer or paid the slightest heed to the warning, though deep in the
heart of each and every one was the belief that Moyen spoke no more than
the truth.

Too, there was a growing respect for the half-god of Asia, in that he
was good enough to warn them of the holocaust which faced their country.

By hundreds and thousands, wing and wing, airplanes dropped to the
Atlantic coast at the closest point of contact, when the signal reached
them. At high altitudes, planes crossing the Atlantic turned back and
returned at top speed, dropping their passengers as soon as over land.
That Moyen made no move to prevent the return of flyers out over the
ocean, and now coming back, was an ominous circumstance.

It seemed to show that he held the American flyers, all of them, in
utter contempt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Prester Kleig regarded the time. It had been half an hour since Moyen
had spoken of attack, half an hour since the monsters of the deep had
started the inexorable move toward land. On the screen the submarines
were bulking larger and larger as the moments fled, until it seemed to
the Secret Agents that the great composite shadow of them already was
sweeping inland from the coast.

As the coast came close ahead of the monster subs the little aero-subs,
to the surprise of the Secret Agents, all vanished into their respective
mother ships.

"But they have to use them," groaned Munson. "For their submarines are
useless in frontal attack against our shores!"

"I am not so sure of that," said Prester Kleig. "For I have a suspicion
that those submarines have tractors under their keels, and that they can
come out on land! If this is so the monsters can, guarded by
armour-plate, penetrate to the very heart of our most populated areas
before their aero-subs are released."

None of the Secret Agents as yet had stopped to ponder how the monsters
had reached their positions, and why Moyen was attacking from the east,
when the Pacific side of the continents would have appeared to be the
obvious point of attack, and would have obviated the necessity of long,
secret under-sea journeys wherein discovery prematurely must have been
one of the many worries of the submarine commanders.

The mere fact of the presence of the monsters was enough. What had
preceded their presence was unimportant, save that their presence, and
their near approach to the shore undetected, further proved the
executive and planning genius of Moyen.

Two miles, on an average, off the eastern coast the submarines laid
their eggs--the aero-subs, which darted from the sides of the mother
ships in flights and squadrons, made the surface, and leaped into the
sky.

Five minutes later and the signal went forth to the phalanx of the
volunteers.

"Take off! Fly east and engage the enemy, and hold him in check, and the
God of our fathers go with you!"

One hour had passed since Moyen's ultimatum when the first vanguard of
the American flyers, obeying the peremptory signal, took the air and
darted eastward to meet the winged death-harbingers of Moyen.




CHAPTER X

"_They Shall Not Pass!_"


Prester Kleig's heartfelt desire, as the American flyers closed with the
first of the aero-subs, was to go out with them and aid them in the
attack against the Moyenites. But he knew, and it was a tacit thing,
that he best served his country from the safe haven of the Secret Room.

As he watched the scenes unfold on the screen of Maniel's genius, with
occasional glances at the somewhat mysterious but profound and
concentrated labors of Maniel, Charmion Kane rose from her place and
came to his side.

Wide-eyed as she watched the joining of battle, she stood there, her
tiny hand encased in the tense one of Prester Kleig.

"You would like to be out there," she murmured. "I know it! But your
country needs you here--and I have already given Carlos!"

Prester Kleig tightened his grip on her hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was deep, silent understanding between these two, and Prester
Kleig, in fighting against the Moyenites, realized, even above his
realization that his labors were primarily for the benefit of his
country, that he really matched wits with Moyen for the sake of
Charmion. Had anyone asked him whether he would have sacrificed her for
the benefit of his country, it would have been a difficult question to
answer.

He was glad that the question was never asked.

"Yes, beloved," he whispered, "I would like to be out there, but the
greatest need for me is here."

But even so he felt as though he was betraying those intrepid flyers he
was sending to sure death. Yet they had volunteered, and it was the only
way.

Maniel, a gnomelike little man with a Titan's brain, labored with his
calculations, made swiftly concrete his theories, while at the
Sound-and-Vision apparatus excitable General Munson ranged the aerial
battlefield to see how the tide of battle ebbed and flowed.

That neither side would either ask or give quarter was instantly
apparent, for they rushed head-on to meet each other, those vast
opposing winged armadas, at top speed, and not a single individual
swerved from his course, though at least the Americans knew that death
rode the skyways ahead.

Then....

The battle was joined. Moyen's forces were superior in armament. Their
sky-steeds were faster, more readily maneuverable, though the flying
forces of the Americas in the last five years had made vast strides in
aviation. But what the Americans lacked in power they made up for in
fearless courage.

       *       *       *       *       *

The plan of battle seemed automatically to work itself out.

The first vanguard of American planes came into contact with the forces
of Moyen, and from the noses of countless aero-subs spurted that golden
streak which the Secret Agents knew and dreaded.

The first flight of planes, stretching from horizon to horizon, vanished
from the sky with that dreadful surety which had marked the passing of
the _Stellar_, and such of those warships as had felt the full force of
the visible ray.

From General Munson rose a groan of anguish. These convertible fighting
planes had been the pride of the heart of the old warrior. To do him
credit, however, it was the wanton, so terribly inevitable destruction
of the flyers themselves which affected him. It was so final, so
absolute--and so utterly impossible to combat.

"Wait!" snapped Prester Kleig.

For the intrepid flyers behind that vanguard which had vanished had
witnessed the wholesale disintegration of the leading element of the
vast armada, and the pilots realized on the instant that no headlong
rush into the very noses of the aero-subs would avail anything.

The vast American formation broke into a mad maelstrom of whirling,
darting, diving planes. Every third plane plummeted downward, every
second one climbed, and the remaining ships, even in the face of what
had happened to the vanished first flight, held steadily to the front.

In this mad, seemingly meaningless formation, they closed on the
aero-subs. Without having seen the fight, the Americans were aping the
action of that one nameless flyer who had charged the aero-sub that had
been destroyed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kleig remembered. A score of ships had been destroyed utterly above the
graveyard of dreadnoughts, yet only one aero-sub, and that quite by
chance, had been marked off in the casualty column.

Death rode the heavens as the American flyers went into action. For
head-on fights, flyers went in at top speed, their planes whirling on
the axes of fuselages, all guns going. Planes were armored against their
own bullets, and they were not under the necessity of watching to see
that they did not slay their own friends.

Even so, bullets were rather ineffective against the aero-subs, whose
apparently flimsy, almost transparent outer covering diverted the
bullets with amazing ease.

A whirling maelstrom of ships. The monsters of Moyen had drawn first
blood, if the expression may be used in an action where no blood at all
was drawn, but machines and men simply erased from existence.

Hundreds of planes already gone when the second flight of ships closed
with the aero-subs. Yellow streaks of death flashed from aero-sub
nostrils, but even as aero-sub operators set their rays into motion the
American flyers in head-on charge rolled, dived or zoomed, and kept
their guns going.

High above the first flight of aero-subs, behind which another flight
was winging swiftly into action, American flyers tilted the noses of
their planes over and dived under full power--to sure death by suicide,
though none knew it there at the moment.

       *       *       *       *       *

These aero-subs could not be driven from the sky by usual means, and
could destroy American ships even before those planes could come to
handgrips; but they, the flyers plainly believed, could be crashed out
of the sky and so, never guessing what besides death in resulting
crashes they faced, the flyers above the aero-subs, even as aero-subs in
rear flashed in to prevent, dived down straight at the backs of the
aero-subs.

In a hundred places the dives of the Americans worked successfully, and
American planes crashed full and true, full power on, into the backs of
the "flying fish." In some aero-subs the container of the Moyen-dealing
agency apparently remained untouched, and airplanes and aero-subs,
welded together, plunged down the invisible skylanes into the sea.

Under water, some of the aero-subs were seen to keep in motion, limping
toward the nearest mother submarines.

"I hope," said Prester Kleig, "the American flyers in such cases are
already dead, for Moyen will be a maniac in his tortures. Munson, do you
hurriedly examine the mother-subs and see if you can locate Moyen."

       *       *       *       *       *

However, only a scattered aero-sub here and there went down without the
strange substance of the yellow ray being released. In most cases, upon
the contact of plane with aero-sub, the aero-subs and planes were
instantly blotted from view by the yellow, golden flames from the heart
of the winged harbingers of Moyen.

Golden flames, blinding in their brightness, dropping down, mere
shapeless blotches, then fading out to nothingness in a matter of
seconds--with aero-sub and airplane totally erased from action and from
existence.

The American flyers saw and knew now the manner of death they faced. Yet
all along the battle front not an American tried to evade the issue and
draw out of the fight. A sublime, inspiring exhibition of mass courage
which had not been witnessed down the years since that general
engagement which men of the time had called the Great War.

Prester Kleig turned to look at Maniel. Drops of perspiration bathed the
cheeks of the master scientist, but his eyes were glowing like coals of
fire. His face was set in a white mask of concentration, and Prester
Kleig knew that Maniel would find the answer to the thing he sought if
such answer could be found.

Would the American flyers be able to hold off the minions of Moyen until
Maniel was ready? The fight out there above the waters was a terrible
thing, and the Americans fought and died like men inspired, yet
inexorably the winged armada of Moyen, preceded by those licking golden
tongues, was moving landward.

"Great God!" cried Munson. "Look!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was really no need for the order, for every Secret Agent saw as
soon as did Munson. Under the sea, just off the coast, the mother-subs
had touched their blunt nose against the upward shelving of the sea
bottom--had touched bottom, and were slowly but surely following the
underwater curve of the land, up toward the surface, like unbelievable
antediluvian monsters out of some nightmare.

"Yes," said Kleig quietly, "those monsters of Moyen can move on land,
and the aero-subs can operate from them as easily on land as under
water."

Kleig regarded the time, whirled to look at Professor Maniel.

One hour and forty minutes had passed since Maniel had begged for two
hours in which to prepare some mode of effectively combatting the might
of Moyen. Twenty minutes to go; yet the mother-subs would be ashore,
dragging their sweating, monstrous sides out of the deep, within ten
minutes!

Ten minutes ashore and there was no guessing the havoc they could cause
to the United Americas!

"Hurry, Maniel! Hurry! Hurry!" said Prester Kleig.

But he spoke the words to himself, though even had he spoken them aloud
Maniel would not have heard. For Maniel, for two hours, had closed his
mind to everything that transpired outside his own thoughts, devoted to
foiling the power of Moyen.

"I've found him!" snapped Munson.

       *       *       *       *       *

He pointed with a shaking forefinger to one of the mother-subs crawling
up the slant of the ocean bed, twisted one of the little nubs of the
Sound-and-Vision apparatus, and the angelic face and Satanic eyes, the
twisted body, of Moyen came into view.

The face was calm with dreadful purpose, and Moyen stood in the heart of
one of his monsters, his eyes turned toward the land. With a gasp of
terror, dreadfully afraid for the first time, Prester Kleig turned and
looked into the eyes of Charmion....

"No," she said. "It will never happen. I have faith in you!"

There were still ten minutes of the two hours left when the mother-subs
broke water and started crawling inland, swiftly, surely, without
faltering in the slightest as they changed their element from water to
land.

As though their appearance had been the signal, the aero-subs in action
against the first line of American planes broke out of the one-sided
fight and dived for their mother ships, while a mere handful of the
American planes started back for home to prepare anew to continue the
struggle.

Prester Kleig gave the signal to the second monster armada which had
remained in reserve.

"Do everything in your power to halt the march of Moyen's amphibians!"

Ten minutes to go, and Professor Maniel still labored like a Titan.




CHAPTER XI

_Caucasia Falls Silent_


As the scores of amphibian monsters came lumbering forth upon dry land
it became instantly apparent why the aero-subs had returned to the
mother ships. For a few moments, out of the water, the amphibians were
almost helpless, with practically no way of attack or defense--as
helpless as huge turtles turned legs up.

But as each aero-sub entered its proper slot in the side of the mother
amphibian, it was turned about and the nose thrust back into the
opening, which closed down to fit tightly about the nose of the
aero-sub, so that those flame-breathing monsters protruded from the
sides of the amphibians in many places--transforming the amphibians into
monsters with hundreds of golden, licking tongues!

As, with each and every aero-sub in place, the amphibians started moving
inland, Professor Maniel made his first move. With the tiny apparatus
upon which he had been working, he stepped to the table before the
Sound-and-Vision apparatus and spoke softly to his compatriots.

"Gentlemen," he said, "I have finished, and it will work effectively!"

Though Maniel spoke softly, it was plain to be seen that he was proud of
his accomplishment, which remained only to be attached to start
performance.

A matter of seconds....

Yet during those seconds was the real might, the real power for utter
devastation, of Moyen fully exposed!

       *       *       *       *       *

The amphibians got under way as the airplanes of the Americas swept into
the fight.

From the sides of the monsters licked out those golden tongues of
flame--and from the front.

Half a dozen amphibians slipped into New York from the harbor side and
started into the heart of the city. And between the time when Maniel had
said he was ready and the moment when he made his first active move
against Moyen, a half-dozen skyscrapers vanished into nothingness, the
spots where they had stood swept as clear of debris as though the land
had never been reclaimed from Nature!

None was ever destined to know how many lives were lost in that first
attack of the monsters of the golden, myriad tongues; but the monsters
struck in the midst of a working day when the skyscrapers were filled
with office workers.

And resolve struck deep into the hearts of the Secret Agents: if Moyen
were turned back, he must be made to pay for the slaughter.

A matter of seconds....

       *       *       *       *       *

Then a moment of deathly silence as Munson gave way at the screen for
the gnomelike little Professor Maniel.

"Now, gentlemen!" snapped Maniel. "If my theory is correct,"
manipulating instruments with lightning speed as he talked, "the
reversion of the principle of my Vibration-Retarder--which captures
vibrations speeding outward from the earth and transforms them once
again into sound and pictures audible and visible to the human ear--this
apparatus will disintegrate the monsters as our boats and planes were
disintegrated!

"In this I have even been compelled to manipulate in the matter of
time! I must not only defeat and annihilate the minions of Moyen, but
must work from a mathematical absurdity, so that at the moment of impact
that moment itself must become part of the past, sufficiently remote to
remove the monsters at such distance from the earth that not even the
mighty genius of Moyen can return them!"

The whirring, gentle as the whirring of doves' wings. In the center of
the picture on the screen were those half-dozen amphibians laying waste
Manhattan. Maniel set his intricate, delicate machinery into motion.

Instantly the amphibians there seemed to become misty, shadowy, and to
lift out of Manhattan up above the roof-tops of skyscrapers still
remaining, nebulous and wraithlike as ghost-shrouds--yet swinging
outward from the earth with speed almost too swift for the eye to
detect.

But where the amphibians had rested there stood, reclined--in all sorts
of postures, surprising and even a bit ridiculous--the men of Moyen who
had operated the monsters of Moyen!

       *       *       *       *       *

From the Central Radio tower went forth a mighty voice of command to the
planes which had been engaging the aero-subs off the coast.

"Slay! Slay!"

Down flashed the planes of the Americas, and their guns were blazing,
inaudibly, but none the less deadly of aim and of purpose, straight into
the midst of the men of Moyen who had thus been left marooned and almost
helpless with the vanishing of their amphibians.

And, noting how they fell in strangled, huddled heaps before the
vengeful fire of the American planes, the Secret Agents sighed, and
Maniel, his face alight with the pride of accomplishment, switched to
another point along the coast.

And as a new group of the monsters of Moyen came into view, and Maniel
bent to his labors afresh, the hated voice of the master mobster broke
once more in the Secret Room.

"Enough, Kleig! Enough! We will surrender to save lives! I stipulate
only that my own life be spared!"

To which Prester Kleig made instant reply.

"Did you offer us choice of surrender? Did you spare the lives of our
people which, with your control of your golden rays, you could easily
have done? No! Nor will we spare lives, least of all the life of Moyen!"

The whirring again, as of the whirring of doves' wings. More metal
monsters, even as golden tongues spewed forth from their many sides,
vanished from view, leaping skyward, while the operators of them were
left to the mercies of the remaining airmen of the Americans.

       *       *       *       *       *

Voicelessly the word went forth:

"Slay! Slay!"

It was Charmion who begged for mercy for the vanquished as, one by one,
as surely as fate, the monsters with their contained aero-subs were
blotted out, leaving pilots and operators behind them. Down upon these
dropped the airmen of the West, slaying without mercy....

"Please, lover!" Charmion whispered. "Spare them!"

"Even...?" he began, thinking of Moyen, who would have taken Charmion.
He felt her shudder as she read his mind, understood what he would have
asked.

"There he is!" came softly from Munson.

An amphibian had just been disintegrated, had just climbed mistily,
swiftly, into invisibility in the skies. And there in the midst of the
conquerors left behind, his angel's face set in a moody mask, his pale
eyes awful with fear, his misshapen body sagging, terrible in its
realization of failure, was Moyen!

Even as Kleig prepared to give the mercy signal, a plane dived down on
the group about Moyen, and the Secret Agents could see the hand of the
pilot, lifted high, as though he signaled.

The plane was a Mayther! The pilot was Carlos Kane!

       *       *       *       *       *

Just as Kane went into action, and the noiseless bullets from his ship
crashed into that twisted body, causing it to jump and twitch with the
might of them, Prester Kleig gave the signal.

Even as the figure of Moyen crashed to the soil and the man's soul
quitted its mortal casement, Kleig commanded:

"Spare all who surrender! Make them prisoners, to be used to repair the
damage they have done to our country! Guards will be instantly placed
over the amphibians and the aero-subs--for the day may come when we
shall need to know their secrets!"

And, as men, hands lifted high in token of surrender, quitted the now
motionless amphibians, and flyers dropped down to make them prisoners,
Maniel sighed, pressed various buttons on his apparatus, and the mad
scene of carnage they had witnessed for hours faded slowly out, and
darkness and silence filled the Secret Room.

But darkness is the joy of lovers, and in the midst of silence that was
almost appalling by contrast, Kleig and Charmion were received into each
other's arms.


                   +---------------------------+
                   |    Everyone Is Invited    |
                   |    _To "Come Over in_     |
                   |  'THE READERS' CORNER'"!  |
                   +---------------------------+




Vampires of Venus

_By Anthony Pelcher_

[Illustration: _He seized a short knife and threw himself forward._]

  Leslie Larner, an entomologist borrowed from the Earth, pits himself
  against the night-flying vampires that are ravaging the inhabitants
  of Venus.


It was as if someone had thrown a bomb into a Quaker meeting, when
adventure suddenly began to crowd itself into the life of the studious
and methodical Leslie Larner, professor of entomology.

Fame had been his since early manhood, when he began to distinguish
himself in several sciences, but the adventure and thrills he had longed
for had always fallen to the lot of others.

His father, a college professor, had left him a good working brain and
nothing else. Later his mother died and he was left with no relatives in
the world, so far as he knew. So he gave his life over to study and hard
work.

Still youthful at twenty-five, he was hoping that fate would "give him
a break." It did.

He was in charge of a Government department having to do with Oriental
beetles, Hessian flies, boll weevils and such, and it seemed his life
had been just one bug after another. He took creeping, crawling things
seriously and believed that, unless curbed, insects would some day crowd
man off the earth. He sounded an alarm, but humanity was not disturbed.
So Leslie Larner fell back on his microscope and concerned himself with
saving cotton, wheat and other crops. His only diversion was fishing for
the elusive rainbow trout.

He managed to spend a month each year in the Colorado Rockies angling
for speckled beauties.

Larner was anything but a clock-watcher, but on a certain bright day in
June he was seated in his laboratory doing just that.

"Just five minutes to go," he mused.

It was just 4:25 P. M. He had finished his work, put his affairs in
order, and in five minutes would be free to leave on a much needed and
well earned vacation. His bags were packed and at the station. His
fishing tackle, the pride of his young life, was neatly rolled in oiled
silk and stood near at hand.

"I'll just fill my calabash, take one more quiet smoke, and then for the
mountains and freedom," he told himself. He settled back with his feet
on his desk. He half closed his eyes in solid comfort. Then the bomb
fell and exploded.

       *       *       *       *       *

B-r-r-r-r!

The buzzer on his desk buzzed and his feet came off the desk and hit the
floor with a thud. His eyes popped open and the calabash was immediately
laid aside.

That buzzer usually meant business, and it would be his usual luck to
have trouble crash in on him just as he was on the edge of a rainbow
trout paradise.

A messenger was ushered into the room by an assistant. The boy handed
him an envelope, said, "No answer," and departed.

Larner tore open the envelope lazily. He read and then re-read its
contents, while a look of puzzled surprise disturbed his usually placid
countenance. He spread the sheet of paper out on his desk, and for the
tenth time he read:

    Confidential.

    Memorize this address and destroy this paper:

    Tula Bela, 1726 88th Street, West, City of Hesper, Republic of
    Pana, Planet Venus.

    Will meet you in the Frying Pan.

That was all. It was enough. Larner lost his temper. He crumpled the
paper and tossed it in the waste basket. He was not given to profanity,
but he could say "Judas Priest" in a way that sizzled.

"Judas Priest!" he spluttered. "Anyone who would send a man a crazy
bunch of nonsense like that, at a time like this, ought to be snuffed
out like a beetle!

"'Meet you in the Frying Pan,'" he quoted. Then he happened to recall
something. "By golly, there is a fishing district in Colorado known as
the Frying Pan. That's not so crazy, but the planet Venus part surely is
cuckoo."

He fished the paper out of the waste basket, found the envelope, placed
the strange message within and put it in his inside coat pocket. Then he
seized his suitcase and fishing tackle, and, rushing out, hailed a taxi.
Not long after he was on his way west by plane.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the country unrolled under him he retrieved the strange note from his
pocket. He read it again and again. Then he examined the envelope. It
was an ordinary one of good quality, designed for business rather than
social usage. The note paper appeared quite different. It was unruled,
pure white, and of a texture which might be described as pebbly. It was
strongly made, and of a nature unlike any paper Larner had ever seen
before. It appeared to have been made from a fiber rather than a pulp.

"Wonder who wrote it?" Larner asked himself. "It is beautiful
handwriting, masculine yet artistic. Wonder where he got the Frying Pan
idea? At any rate, I'm not going to the Frying Pan this year--I'm
camping on Tennessee Creek, in Lake County, Colorado. The country there
is more beautiful and restful.

"But this street address on the planet Venus. Seems to me I read
somewhere that Marconi had received mysterious signals that he believed
came from the planet Venus. Hesper, Hesper ... it sounds familiar,
somehow. Wonder if there could be anything to it?"

Something impelled him to follow out the instructions in the note. He
spent the next few hours repeating the address over and over again. When
he was satisfied that he had memorized it thoroughly, he tore the
strange paper into bits and sent it fluttering earthward like a tiny
snowstorm.

Larner was not a gullible individual, but neither was he unimaginative.
He was scientist enough to know that "the impossibilities of to-day are
the accomplishments of to-morrow." So while not convinced that the note
was a serious communication, still his mind was open.

The weird address insisted on creeping into his mind and driving out
other thoughts, even those of his speckled playfellows, the rainbow
trout.

"I've a notion to change my plans and go from Denver to the Frying Pan,"
he cogitated. Then he thought, "No, I won't take it that seriously."

       *       *       *       *       *

Anyone who knows the Colorado Rockies knows paradise. There is no more
beautiful country on the globe. Lake County, where Larner had chosen
his fishing grounds, has as its seat the old mining camp of Leadville.
It has been visited and settled more for its gold mines than the golden
glow of its sunsets above the clouds, but the gold of the sunsets is
eternal, while the gold of the mines is fading quickly away.

Leadville, with its 5,000 inhabitants, nestles above the clouds, at an
altitude of more than 10,000 feet. Mount Massive with its three peaks
lies back of the town in panorama and rises to a height of some 14,400
feet. In the rugged mountains thereabouts are hundreds of lakes fed by
wild streams and bubbling crystal springs. All these lakes are above the
clouds.

Winter sees the whole picture decorated with bizarre snowdrifts from
twenty to forty feet deep, but spring comes early. The beautiful
columbines and crocuses bloom before the snow is all off the ground in
the valleys. The lands up to 12,000 feet altitude are carpeted with a
light green grass and moss. Giant pines and dainty aspens, with their
silvery bark and pinkish leaves blossom forth and whisper, while the
eternal snows still linger in the higher rocky cliffs and peaks above.

Indian-paint blooms its blood red in contrast to the milder colorings.
Blackbirds and bluebirds chatter and chipmunks chirp. The gold so hard
to find in the mines glares from the skies. The hills cuddle in banks of
snowy clouds, and above all a pure clear blue sky sweeps. The lakes and
streams abound with rainbow trout, the gamest of any fresh water fish.
It is indeed a paradise for either poet or sportsman.

In any direction near to Leadville a man can find Heaven and recreation
and rest.

Finding himself on Harrison Avenue, the main street of the county seat,
Larner, after renewing some old acquaintanceships, started west in a
flivver for Tennessee Creek. The flivver is a modern adjustment. Until
a few years ago the only means of traversing these same hills was by
patient, sure-footed donkeys, which carried the pack while the wayfarer
walked along beside.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first day's fishing was good. Trout seemed to greet him cheerily and
sprang eagerly to the fray. They bit at any sort of silken fly he cast.

The site chosen by Larner for his camp was in a mossy clearing separated
from the stream by a fringe of willows along the creek. Then came a
border of aspens backed by a forest of silver-tipped firs.

It was ideal and his eyes swept the scene with satisfaction. Then he
began whittling bacon to grease his pan for frying trout over the open
fire.

Suddenly he heard a rustle in the aspens, and, looking up, beheld a
picture which made his eyes bulge. A man and a woman, garbed seemingly
in the costumes of another world, walked toward him. Neither were more
than five feet tall but were physically perfect, and marvelously
pleasing to the eye. There was little difference in their dress.

Both wore helmets studded with what Larner believed to be sapphires. He
learned later they were diamonds. Their clothing consisted of tight
trouserlike garments surmounted by tunics of some white pelt resembling
chamois save for color. A belt studded with precious stones encircled
their waists. Artistic laced sandals graced their small firm feet.

Their skin was a pinkish white. Their every feature was perfection plus,
and their bodies curved just enough wherever a curve should be. The
woman was daintier and more fully developed, and her features were even
more finely chiseled than the man. Otherwise it would have been
difficult to distinguish their sex.

Larner took in these details subconsciously, for he was awed beyond
expression. All he could do was to stand seemingly frozen, half bent
over the campfire with his frying pan in his hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

The man spoke.

"I hope we did not startle you," he said. "I thought my note would
partly prepare you for this meeting. We expected to find you in the
Frying Pan district. When you did not appear there we tuned our radio
locator to your heart beats and in that way located you here. It was
hardly a second's space-flying time from where we were."

Larner said nothing. He could only stand and gape.

"I do not wonder that you are surprised," said the strange little man.
"I will explain that I am Nern Bela, of the City of Hesper, on the
planet Venus. This is my sister Tula. We greet you in the interest of
the Republic of Pana, which embraces all of the planet you know as
Venus."

When Larner recovered his breath, he lost his temper.

"I don't know what circus you escaped from, but I crave solitude and I
have no time to be bothered with fairy tales," he said with brutal
bruskness.

Expressions of hurt surprise swept the countenances of his visitors.

The man spoke again:

"We are just what we assert we are, and our finding you was made
necessary by a condition which grieves the souls of all the 900,000,000
inhabitants of Venus. We have come to plead with you to come with us and
use your scientific knowledge to thwart a scourge which threatens the
lives of millions of people."

There was a quiet dignity about the man and an air of pride about the
woman which made Larner stop and think, or try to. He rubbed his hand
over his brow and looked questioningly at the pair.

"If you are what you say you are, how did you get here?" he asked.

"We came in a targo, a space-flying ship, capable of doing 426,000 miles
an hour. This is just 1200 times as fast as 355 miles an hour, the
highest speed known on earth. Come with us and we will show you our
ship." They looked at him appealingly, and both smiled a smile of
wistful friendliness.

Larner, without a word, threw down his frying pan and followed them
through the aspens. The brother and sister walking ahead of him gave his
eyes a treat. He surveyed the perfect form of the girl. Her perfection
was beyond his ken.

"They certainly are not of this world," he mused.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few hundred yards farther on there was a beach of pebbles, where the
stream had changed its course. On this plot sat a gigantic spherical
machine of a glasslike material. It was about 300 feet in diameter and
it was tapered on two sides into tees which Larner rightly took to be
lights.

"This is a targo, our type of space-flyer," said Nern Bela. "It is
capable of making two trips a year between Venus and the earth. We have
visited this planet often, always landing in some mountain or jungle
fastness as heretofore we did not desire earth-dwellers to know of our
presence."

"Why not?" asked Larner, his mouth agape and his eyes protruding. His
mind was so full of questions that he fairly blurted his first one.

"Because," said Bela, slowly and frankly, "because our race knows no
sickness and we feared contagion, as your race has not yet learned to
control its being."

"Oh," said Lamer thoughtfully. He realized that humans of the earth,
whom he had always regarded as God's most perfect beings, were not so
perfect after all.

"How do you people control your being, as you express it?" he asked.

"It is simple," was the reply. "For ninety centuries we have ceased to
breed imperfection, crime and disease. We deprived no one of the
pleasures of life, but only the most perfect mental and physical
specimens of our people cared to have children. In other words, while we
make no claim to controlling our sex habits, we do control results."

"Oh," said Larner again.

Nern Bela led the way to a door which opened into the side of the
space-flyer near its base. "We have a crew of four men and four women,"
he said. "They handle the entire ship, with my sister and I in command,
making six souls aboard in all."

"Why men and women?" thought Larner.

As if in answer to his thought Bela said:

"On the earth the two sexes have struggled for sex supremacy. This has
thrown your civilization out of balance. On Venus we have struggled for
sex equality and have accomplished it. This is a perfect balance. Man
and women engage in all endeavor and share all favors and rewards
alike."

"In war, too?" asked Larner.

"There has not been war on Venus for 600,000 years," said Bela. "There
is only the one nation, and the people all live in perfect accord. Our
only trouble in centuries is a dire peril which now threatens our
people, and it is of this that I wish to talk to you more at length."

       *       *       *       *       *

They were standing close to the targo. Larner was struck by the peculiar
material of which it was constructed. There was a question in his eyes,
and Nern Bela answered it:

"The metal is duranium; it is metalized quartz. It is frictionless,
conducts no current or ray except repulsion and attraction ray NTR69X6
by which it is propelled. It is practically transparent, lighter than
air and harder than a diamond. It is cast in moulds after being melted
or, rather, fused.

"We use cold light which we produce by forcing oxygen through air tubes
into a vat filled with the fat of a deep sea fish resembling your whale.
You are aware, of course, that that is exactly how cold light is
produced by the firefly, except for the fact that the firefly uses his
own fat."

Larner was positively fascinated. He smoothed the metal of the targo in
appreciation of its marvelous construction, but he longed most to see
the curious light giving mechanism, for this was closer to his own line
of entomology. He had always believed that the light giving organs of
fireflys and deep-sea fishes could be reproduced mechanically.

The interior of the ship resembled in a vague way that of an ocean
liner. It was controlled by an instrument board at which a man and a
girl sat. They did not raise their heads as the three people entered.

When called by Bela and his sister, who seemed to give commands in
unison, the crew assembled and were presented to the visitor.

"Earth-dwellers are not the curiosity to us that we seem to be to you,"
said Tula Bela, speaking for the first time and smiling sweetly.

Larner was too engrossed to note the remark further than to nod his
head. He was lost in contemplation of these strange people, all garbed
exactly alike and all surpassingly lovely to look upon.

       *       *       *       *       *

An odor of food wafted from the galley, and Larner remembered he was
hungry, with the hunger of health. He had swung his basket of fish over
his shoulder when he left his campfire, and Tula took it from him.

"Would you like to have our chef prepare them for you?" she said, as she
caught his hungry glance at his day's catch. This time Larner answered
her.

"If you will pardon me," he said awkwardly. "Really I am famished."

"You will not miss your fish dinner," said the girl.

"I believe there is enough for all of us," said Larner. "I caught twenty
beauties. I never knew fish to bite like that. Why, they--" and he was
off on a voluminous discourse on a favorite subject.

Those assembled listened sympathetically. Then Tula took the fish, and
soon the aroma of broiling trout mingled with the other entrancing
galley odors.

After a dinner at which some weird yet satisfying viands were served and
much unusual conversation indulged in, Nern Bela led the way to what
appeared to be the captain's quarters. The crew and their visitor sat
down to discuss a subject which proved to be of such a terrifying nature
as to scar human souls.

"People on Venus," said Nern, as his eyes took on a worried expression,
"are unable to leave their homes after nightfall due to some strange
nocturnal beast which attacks them and vampirishly drains all blood from
their veins, leaving the dead bodies limp and empty."

"What? How?" questioned Larner leaning far forward over the conference
table.

The others nodded their heads, and in the eyes of the women there was
terror. Larner could not but believe this.

"The beasts, or should I say insects, are as large as your horses and
they fly, actually fly, by night, striking down humans, domestic animals
and all creatures of warm blood. How many there are we have no means of
knowing, and we cannot find their hiding and breeding places. They are
not native to our planet, and where they come from we cannot imagine.
They are actually monstrous flys, or bugs, or some form of insects."

       *       *       *       *       *

Larner was overcome by incredulity and showed it. "Insects as big as
horses?" he questioned and he could hardly suppress a smile.

"Believe us, in the name of the God of us all," insisted Nern. "They
have a mouth which consists of a large suction disk, in the center of
which is a lancelike tongue. The lance is forced into the body at any
convenient point, and the suction disk drains out the blood. If we only
knew their source! They attack young children and the aged, up to five
hundred years, alike."

"What! Five hundred years?" exploded Larner again.

"I should have explained," said Nern, simply, "that Venus dwellers, due
to our advanced knowledge of sanitation and health conversation, live
about 800 years and then die invariably of old age. The only unnatural
cause of death encountered is this giant insect. Accidents do occur, but
they are rare. There are no deliberate killings on Venus."

Larner did not answer. He only pondered. The more he ran over the
strange happenings of the last week in his mind the more he believed he
was dreaming. His thoughts took a strange turn: "Why do these vain
people go around dressed in jeweled ornaments?"

Nern again anticipated a question. "Diamonds, gold and many of what you
call precious stones are common on Venus," he volunteered. "Talc and
many other things are more valuable."

"Talc?"

"Yes, we use an immense quantity of it. We have a wood that is harder
than your steel. We build machinery with it. We cannot use oil to
lubricate these wooden shafts and bearings as it softens the wood, so
all parts exposed to friction are sprayed constantly by a gust of talc
from a blower.

"You use talc mostly for toilet purposes. We use it for various
purposes. There is little left on Venus, and it is more valuable to us
than either gold or diamonds. We draw on your planet now for talc. You
dump immense quantities. We just shipped one hundred 1,000-ton globes of
it from the Cripple Creek district, and the district never missed it. We
drew most of it from your mine dumps."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nern tried not to look bored as he explained more in detail: "We brought
100 hollow spheres constructed of duranium. We suspended these over the
Cripple Creek district at an altitude of 10,000 feet above the earth's
surface. Because of the crystal glint of duranium they were invisible to
earth dwellers at that height. Then we used a suction draft at night,
drawing the talc from the earth, filling one drum after another. This is
done by tuning in a certain selective attraction that attracts only
talc. It draws it right out of your ground in tiny particles and
assembles it in the transportation drums as pure talc. On the earth, if
noticed at all, it would have been called a dust storm.

"The drums, when loaded with talc, are set to attract the proper
planetary force and they go speeding toward Venus at the rate of 426,000
miles an hour. They are prevented from colliding with meteors by an
automatic magnetic device. This is controlled by magnetic force alone,
and when the targo gets too close to a meteor it changes its course
instantly. The passenger targo we ride in acts similarly. And now may I
return to the subject of the vampires of Venus?"

"Pardon my ignorance," said Larner, and for the first time in his life
he felt very ignorant indeed.

"I know little more than I have told you," said Nern, rather hopelessly.
"Our knowledge of your world, your people and your language comes from
our listening in on you and observing you without being observed or
heard. This might seem like taking an advantage of you, were it not for
the fact that we respect confidences, and subjugate all else to science.
We have helped you at times, by telepathically suggesting ideas to your
thinkers.

"We would have given you all our inventions in this way, gladly, but in
many instances we were unable to find minds attuned to accept such
advanced ideas. We have had the advantage of you because our planet is
so many millions of years older than your own." There was a plaintive
note in Nern's voice as he talked.

       *       *       *       *       *

"But now we are on our knees to you, so to speak. We do not know
everything and, desperately, we need the aid of a man of your caliber.
In behalf of the distraught people of Venus, I am asking you bluntly to
make a great sacrifice. Will you face the dangers of a trip to Venus and
use your knowledge to aid us in exterminating these creatures of hell?"
There was positive pleading in his voice, and in the eyes of his
beautiful sister there were tears.

"But what would my superiors in the Government Bureau think?" feebly
protested Larner, "I could not explain...."

"You have no superiors in your line. Our Government needs you at this
time more than any earthly government. Your place here is a fixture. You
can always return to it, should you live. We are asking you to face a
horrible death with us. You can name your own compensation, but I know
you are not interested so much in reward.

"Now, honestly, my good professor, there is no advantage to be gained by
explanation. Just disappear. In the name of God and in the interests of
science and the salvation of a people who are at your mercy, just drop
out of sight. Drop out of life on this planet. Come with us. The cause
is worthy of the man I believe you to be."

"I will go," said Larner, and his hosts waited for no more. An instant
later the targo shot out into interstellar space.

"How do you know what course to follow?" asked Larner after a reasonable
time, when he had recovered from his surprise at the sudden take-off.

"We do not need to know. Our machine is tuned to be attracted by the
planetary force of Venus alone. We could not go elsewhere. A repulsion
ray finds us as we near Venus and protects us against too violent a
landing. We will land on Venus like a feather about three months from
to-night."

The time of the journey through outer space was of little moment save
for one incident. Larner and the other travelers were suddenly and
rather rudely jostled about the rapidly flying craft.

Larner lost his breath but not his speech. "What happened?" he inquired.

"We just automatically dodged a meteor," explained Nern.

       *       *       *       *       *

Most of the time of the trip was spent by Larner in listening to
explanations of customs and traditions of the people of the brightest
planet in the universe.

There was a question Larner had desired to ask Nern Bela, yet he
hesitated to do so. Finally one evening during the journey to Venus,
when the travelers had been occupying themselves in a scientific
discussion of comparative evolution on the two planets, Larner saw his
opportunity.

"Why," he asked rather hesitatingly, "did the people of Venus always
remain so small? Why did you not strive more for height? The Japanese,
who are the shortest in stature of earth people, always wanted to be
tall."

"Without meaning any offense," replied Nern, "I must say that it is
characteristic of earth dwellers to want something without knowing any
good reason why they want it. It is perfectly all right for you people
to be tall, but for us it is not so fitting. You see, Venus is smaller
than the earth. Size is comparative. You think we are not tall because
you are used to taller people. Comparatively we are tall enough. In
proportion to the size of our planet we are exactly the right size. We
keep our population at 900,000,000, and that is the perfectly exact
number of people who can live comfortably on our planet."

       *       *       *       *       *

Arriving on Venus, Larner was assigned a laboratory and office in one of
the Government buildings. It was a world seemingly made of glass.
Quartz, of rose, white and crystal coloring, Larner found, was the
commonest country rock of the planet. In many cases it was shot full of
splinters of gold which the natives had not taken the trouble to
recover. This quartz was of a terrific hardness and was used in
building, paving, and public works generally. The effect was
bewildering. It was a world of shimmering crystal.

The atmosphere of Venus had long puzzled Larner. While not an astronomer
in the largest sense of the word, yet he had a keen interest in the
heavens as a giant puzzle picture, and he had given some spare time to
the study.

He knew that from all indications Venus had a most unusual atmosphere.
He had read that the atmosphere was considerably denser than that of the
earth, and that its presence made observation difficult. The actual
surface of the planet he knew could hardly be seen due, either to this
atmosphere, or seemingly perpetual cloud banks.

He had read that the presence of atmosphere surrounding Venus is
indicated to earthly astronomers, during the planet's transit, by rings
of light due to the reflection and scattering of collected sunlight by
its atmosphere.

Astronomers on earth, he knew, had long been satisfied of the presence
of great cloud banks, as rocks and soils could not have such high
reflecting power. He knew that like the moon, Venus, when viewed from
the earth, presents different phases from the crescent to the full or
total stage.

Looking up at the sky from the quartz streets of Venus, Larner beheld,
in sweeping grandeur, massed cloud banks, many of them apparently rain
clouds.

Nern noted his skyward gaze, and said:

"We have accomplished meteorological control. Those clouds were brought
under control when we conquered interplanetary force, and what you call
gravity. We form them and move them at will. They are our rain factory.
We make rain when and where we will. This insures our crops and makes
for health and contentment.

"The air, you will note, is about the same or a little more moist than
the earth air at sea level. This is due to the planet's position nearer
the sun.

"We have been striving for centuries to make the air a little drier and
more rare, but we have not succeeded yet. The heavy content of
disintegrated quartz in our soil makes moisture very necessary for our
crops, so our moist atmosphere is evidently a provision of providence.
We are used to breathing this moist air, and when I first visited the
earth I was made uncomfortable by your rarified atmosphere. Now I can
adjust myself to breathing the air of either planet. However, I find
myself drinking a great deal more water on earth than on Venus."

       *       *       *       *       *

In this fairyland which had enjoyed centuries of peace, health and
accord, stark terror now reigned. In some instances the finely-bred,
marvellously intelligent people were in a mental condition bordering on
madness.

This was especially true in the farming districts, where whole herds of
lats had been wiped out. Lats, Larner gleaned, were a common farm animal
similar to the bovine species on earth, only more wooly. On these
creatures the Venus dwellers depended for their milk and dairy supplies,
and for their warmer clothing, which was made from the skin. The hair
was used for brushes, in the building trades, and a thousand ways in
manufacturing.

Besides the domestic animals hundreds of people continued to meet death,
and only a few of the flying vampires had been hunted down. The giant
insects were believed to breed slowly as compared to earth insects,
their females producing not more than ten eggs, by estimate, after which
death overtook the adult. In spite of this they were reported to be
increasing.

In the Government building Larner was placed in touch with all the
Government scientists of Venus. His nearest collaborator was one Zorn
Zada, most profound scientist of the planet. The two men, with a score
of assistants, worked elbow to elbow on the most gigantic scientific
mystery in the history of two planets.

A specimen of the dread invader was mounted and studied by the
scientists, who were so engrossed in their work that they hardly took
time to eat. As for sleep, there was little of it. Days were spent in
research and nights in hunting the monsters. This hunting was done by
newly recruited soldiers and scientists. The weapons used were a short
ray-gun of high destructive power which disintegrated the bodies of the
enemies by atomic energy blasts. The quarry was wary, however, and
struck at isolated individuals rather than massed fighting lines.

       *       *       *       *       *

Seated at his work-bench Larner asked Zorn Zada what had become of Nern
Bela. In his heart he had a horrible lurking fear that the beautiful
Tula Bela might fall before a swarm of the strange vampires, but he did
not voice this anxiety.

"Nern and his sister are explorers and navigators," was the reply. "They
have been assigned to carry you anywhere on this or any other planet
where your work may engage you. They await your orders. They are too
valuable as space-navigators to be placed in harm's way."

Breathing a sigh of relief, Larner bent to his labors.

"What other wild animals or harmful insects have you on this planet?" he
asked Zorn.

"I get your thought," replied the first scientist of Venus. "You are
seeking a natural enemy to this deadly flying menace, are you not?"

"Yes," admitted Larner.

"All insects left on Venus with this one exception are beneficial," said
Zorn. "There are no wild animals, and no harmful insects. All animals,
insects and birds have been domesticated and are fed by their keepers.
We get fabrics from forms of what you call spiders and other
web-builders and cocoon spinners. All forms of birds, beasts and
crawling and flying things have been brought under the dominion of man.
We will have to seek another way out than by finding an enemy parasite."

"Where do you think these insect invaders came from?" asked Larner.

"You have noticed they are unlike anything you have on earth in
anatomical construction," said the savant. "They partake of the general
features of Coleoptera (beetles), in that they wear a sheath of armor,
yet their mouth parts are more on the order of the Diptera (flys). I
regard them more as a fly than a beetle, because most Coleoptera are
helpful to humanity while practically all, if not all, Diptera are
malignant.

"As to their original habitat, I believe they migrated here from some
other planet."

"They could not fly through space," said Larner.

"No, that is the mystery of it," agreed Zorn. "How they got here and
where they breed are the questions that we have to answer."

       *       *       *       *       *

Long days passed on Venus. Long days and sleepless nights. The big
insects were hunted nightly by men armed with ray-guns, and nightly the
blood-sucking monsters took their toll of humanity and animals.

Finally Larner and Zorn determined to capture one of the insects alive,
muzzle its lance and suction pad, and give it sufficient freedom to find
its way back to its hiding place. By following the shackled monster the
scientists hoped to find the breeding grounds.

All the provinces of the planet joined in the drive. Men turned out in
automatic vehicles, propelled by energy gathered from the atmosphere.
They came on foot and in aircraft. Mobilization was at given points and,
leading the van, were Zorn and Larner and their confreres in the targo
of Nern and Tula Bela. The great army of Venus carried giant
searchlights and was armed with deadly ray-guns.

       *       *       *       *       *

Headquarters of the vast Army of Offense was in the targo of the Belas.
Larner was in supreme command. Just before the big army set out to scour
the planet to seek the breeding place of the monsters Larner issued a
bulletin that set all Venus by the ears.

Addressed to President Vole Vesta of the Republic of Pana and the good
people of Venus, it read:

    As is generally known, it has been the habit of the nation's
    space-flying merchantmen to visit the sunlit side of the planet
    Mercury to obtain certain rare woods and other materials not found
    on this planet.

    One side of Mercury, as is known, is always turned from the sun and
    is in a condition of perpetual night. In this perpetual darkness
    and dampness, where many rivers flow into warm black swamps, the
    vampires have bred for centuries. Conditions were ideal for their
    growth, and so through the ages they evolved into the monsters we
    have encountered lately on Venus.

    During some comparatively recent visit to Mercury the grubs of
    these insects have found their way abroad a vegetation-laden targo
    left standing near the edge of the black swamps of Mercury. These
    grubs were thus transported to Venus and underwent their natural
    metamorphosis here. Reaching adult stage, they have found some
    place to hide and breed, and thus is explained the origin of the
    vampires of Venus.

This was widely read and discussed and was finally accepted as the means
of the invasion of peaceful, beautiful Venus by a horror that might well
have originated in hell.

However, this did not reveal the breeding grounds, or remove the
nation-wide scourge of the horrible winged vampires, so the mobilization
of all the forces of the planet continued.

       *       *       *       *       *

As day followed day the hordes of fighting Venus dwellers grew in the
concentration camps. In the targo of the Belas, Larner, brain-weary and
body-racked as he was with overwork, found a grain of happiness in being
in the presence of Nern and his beautiful, petite sister.

With Zorn, Larner was supervising the construction of a big net of
strongly woven wire mesh, in which it was hoped to catch one of the
vampires. It was decided to bait the trap with a fat female lat.

Zorn, Larner and the Belas fared forth from the concentration camp
followed by a company of soldiers carrying the big net. Tula with her
own hand led the fat lat heifer. His eyes were filled with commiseration
for the poor animal.

Thousands of soldiers and citizenry, in fighting array, watched the
departure of the little group.

In a glade the trap was set and the net arranged to fall over the
monster once it attacked the calf. From a thicket, in utter darkness,
Zorn and Larner and the two Belas waited for the possible catch. The
whole nation stood awaiting the order to advance.

On the fourth night the vigil was rewarded in a manner frightful to
relate.

A clumsy flutter of giant wings broke the stillness.

The four waiting forms in the thicket rejoiced, believing the fat lat
was about to be attacked.

Onward came the approaching horror. The measured flap, flap of its
armored wings drawing nearer and nearer. Then, horror--horrors!

A feminine scream rent the air. Cries loud and shrill arose above a
hysterical feminine cry for help.

The monster had chosen Tula Bela for its prey!

       *       *       *       *       *

Zorn exploded an alarm bomb. A compressed air siren brought the army
forward on the run. Giant floodlights began to light up the scene. The
blood of Larner and Nern froze.

The monster had borne the girl to the ground. Its frightful lance and
cupper was upraised to strike. Larner was the nearest and the quickest
to act. He grabbed for his ray-gun, swung at his belt. It was gone! In
horror he remembered he had left it at the base. He seized a short knife
and threw himself forward, rolling his body between that of the girl and
the descending lance and cupper.

As the lance pierced his shoulder Larner, in one wild gesture of frenzy,
drove his knife through the soft, yielding flesh of the vampire's organ
of suction.

Protected by no bony structure the snout of the monster was amputated.

The terrible creature had been disarmed of his most formidable weapon,
but he continued to fight. Larner felt the spikes on the monster's legs
tear at his flesh.

"Don't kill the thing," he shouted. "Bring on the net. For the love of
God bring on the net!" Then he lost consciousness.

It was daylight when Larner, somewhat weakened from loss of blood,
regained consciousness.

The beautiful Tula Bela was leaning over him.

She whispered comforting words to him in a language he did not fully
understand. She whispered happy exclamations in words he did not know
the meaning of, but the tone was unmistakably those of a sweetheart
towards her lover.

Finally, in answer to a true scientist's question in his eyes, she said
in English:

"They caught the thing alive. They await your order to advance."

"Let us be on our way," said Larner, and he started to arise.

"You are hardly strong enough," said Tula.

"Believe me, I am all right," insisted Larner, and after several trials
he got to his feet. His constitution was naturally strong and his will
was stronger, so he fought back all feelings of weakness and soon
announced himself ready to go ahead with the project at hand. For speed
was all important, and the young professor found himself unable to
remain inactive.

       *       *       *       *       *

He rejoiced when Zorn told him that the big insect that had attacked
Tula Bela had been captured alive and had been kept well nourished by
lat's blood injected into its stomach.

With Zorn Larner went to inspect the hideous monstrosity and found it in
leash and straining. It was ready to be used to lead the way back to its
breeding place.

Its wings shackled, the lumbering insect floundered on its way straight
north. Ponderously and half blindly it crawled as the searchlights'
glare was kept far enough in advance to keep from blinding the monster.

True to instinct it finally brought up at early dawn under a high cliff
of smoky quartz. Here, in the great crevices, the drove of diabolical
vampires were hiding.

As the light struck their dens, they attempted clumsily to take wing,
but a interlacing network of devastating disintegrating rays from the
ray-guns shattered their bodies to dust, which was borne away by the
wind.

The next few months were spent in combing the quartz crags of Venus for
similar infested areas, but only the one breeding nest was found. The
scourge had been conquered in its first and only stronghold.

       *       *       *       *       *

So ended the greatest reign of terror in the history of Venus.

Leslie Larner was given a vote of thanks, and riches were showered upon
him by the good people of the sky's brightest star.

His modesty was characteristic, and he insisted that his part in saving
humanity on the planet had been small.

Passage back to earth was offered him, but Nern and Tula Bela urged him
to say and live his life on Venus. This he finally agreed to do.

"If I returned," he said, "I would always be tempted to tell my
experiences while away, and there is not a jury in the world which would
account me sane after I had once spoken."

       *       *       *       *       *

That the story of Larner's adventure reached earth dwellers at all is
due to the fact that Nern Bela on a subsequent visit to the earth
narrated it to a Colorado quartz miner. This miner, a bronzed and
bearded prospector for gold, stumbled on the targo in a mountain
fastness, and there was nought to do but make him welcome and pledge him
to secrecy.

The miner surveyed the crystal targo in rapt wonderment and said: "And
to think I am the only earth man who ever viewed such a craft!"

"No," answered Nern Bela, "there is one other." And then the stirring
story of Leslie Larner's life on Venus was told.




SAFE FLYING IN FOGS

The outstanding development in aviation recently, and one of the most
significant so far in aviation history was the "blind" flight of Lieut.
James H. Doolittle, daredevil of the Army Air Corps, at Mitchel Field,
L. I., which led Harry P. Guggenheim, President of the Daniel Guggenheim
Fund for the Promotion of Aeronautics, Inc. to announce that the problem
of fog-flying, one of aviation's greatest bugbears, had been solved at
last.

There has been "blind flying" done in the past but never before in the
history of aviation has any pilot taken off, circled, crossed,
re-crossed the field, then landed only a short distance away from his
starting point while flying under conditions resembling the densest fog,
as Lieut. "Jimmy" Doolittle has done, in his Wright-motored "Husky"
training-plane. It was something uncanny to contemplate.

The "dense fog" was produced artificially by the simple device of making
the cabin of the plane entirely light-proof. Once seated inside, the
flyer, with his co-pilot, Lieut. Benjamin Kelsey, also of Mitchel Field,
were completely shut off from any view of the world outside. All they
had to depend on were three new flying instruments, developed during the
past year in experiments conducted over the full-flight laboratory
established by the Fund at Mitchel Field.

The chief factors contributing to the solution of the problem of blind
flying consist of a new application of the visual radio beacon, the
development of an improved instrument for indicating the longitudinal
and lateral position of an airplane, a new directional gyroscope, and a
sensitive barometric altimeter, so delicate as to measure the altitude
of an airplane within a few feet of the ground.

Thus, instead of relying on the natural horizon for stability, Lieut.
Doolittle uses an "artificial horizon" on the small instrument which
indicates longitudinal and lateral position in relation to the ground at
all time. He was able to locate the landing field by means of the
direction-finding long-distance radio beacon. In addition, another
smaller radio beacon had been installed, casting a beam fifteen to
twenty miles in either direction, which governs the immediate approach
to the field.

To locate the landing field the pilot watches two vibrating reeds, tuned
to the radio beacon, on a virtual radio receiver on his instrument
board. If he turns to the right or left of his course the right or left
reed, respectively, begins doing a sort of St. Vitus dance. If the reeds
are in equilibrium the pilot knows it is clear sailing straight to his
field.

The sensitive altimeter showed Lieut. Doolittle his altitude and made it
possible for him to calculate his landing to a distance of within a few
feet from the ground.

Probably the strangest device of all that Lieut. Doolittle has been
called upon to test in Mr. Guggenheim's war against fog is a sort of
heat cannon that goes forth to combat like a fire-breathing dragon of
old. Like the enemies of the dragon, the fog is supposed to curl up and
die before the scorching breath of the "hot air artillery" although the
fundamental principle behind the device is a great deal more scientific
than such an explanation sounds. It is, in brief, based on the known
fact that fog forms only in a very narrow temperature zone which lies
between the saturation and precipitation points of the atmosphere. If
the air grows a little colder the fog turns into rain and falls; if it
is warmed very slightly the mist disappears and the air is once more
normally clear, although its humidity is very close to the maximum.




Brigands of the Moon

(The Book of Gregg Haljan)

PART TWO OF A FOUR-PART NOVEL

_By Ray Cummings_

[Illustration: _I turned back to look at the Planetara._]

  Out of awful space tumbled the Space-ship _Planetara_ towards the
  Moon, her officers _dead_, with bandits at her helm--and the
  controls out of order!


My name, Gregg Haljan. My age, twenty-five years. My occupation, at the
time my narrative begins, in 2075, was third officer of the
Interplanetary Space-ship _Planetara_.

Thus I introduce myself to you. For this is a continuation of the book
of Gregg Haljan, and of necessity I am the chief actor therein. I shall
recapitulate very briefly what has happened so far:

Unscrupulous Martian brigands were scheming for Johnny Grantline's
secret radium-ore treasure, dug out of the Moon and waiting there to be
picked up by the _Planetara_ on her return trip from Mars.

The _Planetara_ left, bound for Mars, some ten days away. Suspicious
interplanetary passengers were aboard: Miko and Moa, a brother and a
sister of Mars; Sir Arthur Coniston, a mysterious Englishman; Ob Hahn, a
Venus mystic. And small, effeminate George Prince and his sister, Anita.
Love, I think, was born instantly between Anita and me. I found all too
soon that Miko, the sinister giant from Mars, also desired her.

[Illustration]

As we neared the Moon we received Grantline's secret message: "Stop for
ore on your return voyage. Success beyond wildest hopes!" But I soon
discovered that an eavesdropper in an invisible cloak had overheard it!

Soon afterwards Miko accidentally murdered a person identified as Anita
Prince.

Then, in the confusion that resulted, Miko struck his great blow. The
crew of the _Planetara_, secretly in his pay, rose up and killed the
captain and all the officers but Snap Dean, the radio-helio operator,
and myself.

I was besieged in the chart-room. George Prince leaped in upon me--and
put his arms around me. I looked at him closer--only to discover it was
Anita, disguised as her brother! It was her brother, George, who had
been killed! George had been in the brigands' confidence--thus Anita was
able to spy for us.

Quickly we plotted. I would surrender to her, Anita Prince, whom the
brigands thought was George Prince. Together we might possibly be able,
with Snap's help, to turn the tide, and reclaim the _Planetara_.

I was taken to my stateroom and locked there until Miko the brigand
leader should come to dispose of me. But I cared not what had
happened--Anita was alive!




CHAPTER XIV

_The Brigand Leader_


The giant Miko stood confronting me. He slid my cubby door closed behind
him. He stood with his head towering close against my ceiling. His cloak
was discarded. In his leather clothes, and with his clanking
sword-ornament, his aspect carried the swagger of a brigand of old. He
was bareheaded; the light from one of my tubes fell upon his grinning,
leering gray face.

"So, Gregg Haljan? You have come to your senses at last. You do not wish
me to write my name upon your chest? I would not have done that to Dean;
he forced me. Sit back."

I had been on my bunk. I sank back at the gesture of his huge hairy arm.
His forearm was bare now; the sear of a burn on it was plain to be seen.
He remarked my gaze.

"True. You did that, Haljan, in Great-New York. But I bear you no
malice. I want to talk to you now."

He cast about for a seat, and took the little stool which stood by my
desk. His hand held a small cylinder of the Martian paralyzing ray; he
rested it beside him on the desk.

"Now we can talk."

I remained silent. Alert. Yet my thoughts were whirling. Anita was
alive. Masquerading now as her brother. And, with the joy of it, came a
shudder. Above everything, Miko must not know.

"A great adventure we are upon, Haljan."

       *       *       *       *       *

My thoughts came back. Miko was talking with an assumption of friendly
comradeship. "All is well--and we need you, as I have said before. I am
no fool. I have been aware of everything that went on aboard this ship.
You, of all the officers, are most clever at the routine mathematics. Is
that so?"

"Perhaps," I said.

"You are modest." He fumbled at a pocket of his jacket, produced a
scroll-sheaf. I recognized it: Blackstone's figures; the calculation
Blackstone roughly made of the elements of the asteroid we had passed.

"I am interested in these," Miko went on. "I want you to verify them.
And this." He held up another scroll. "This is the calculation of our
present position. And our course. Hahn claims he is a navigator. We have
set the ship's gravity plates--see, like this--"

He handed me the scrolls; he watched me keenly as I glanced over them.

"Well?" I said.

"You are sparing of words, Haljan. By the devils of the airways, I could
make you talk! But I want to be friendly."

       *       *       *       *       *

I handed him back the scrolls. I stood up; I was almost within reach of
his weapon, but with a sweep of his great arm he abruptly knocked me
back to my bunk.

"You dare?" Then he smiled. "Let us not come to blows!"

"No," I said. I returned his smile. In truth, physical violence could
get me nothing in dealing with this fellow. I would have to try guile.
And I saw now that his face was flushed and his eyes unnaturally bright.
He had been drinking alcolite; not enough to befuddle him--but enough to
make him triumphantly talkative.

"Hahn may not be much of a mathematician," I suggested. "But there is
your Sir Arthur Coniston." I managed a sarcastic grin. "Is that his
name?"

"Almost. Haljan, will you verify these figures?"

"Yes. But why? Where are we going?"

He laughed. "You are afraid I will not tell you! Why should I not? This
great adventure of mine is progressing perfectly. A tremendous stake,
Haljan. A hundred millions of dollars in gold-leaf; there will be
fabulous riches for us all, when that radium ore is sold for a hundred
million in gold-leaf."

"But where are we going?"

"To that asteroid," he said abruptly. "I must get rid of these
passengers. I am no murderer."

       *       *       *       *       *

With half a dozen killings in the recent fight this was hardly
convincing. But he was obviously wholly serious. He seemed to read my
thoughts.

"I kill only when necessary. We will land upon the asteroid. A perfect
place to maroon the passengers. Is it not so? I will give them the
necessities of life. They will be able to signal. And in a month or so,
when we are safely finished with our adventure, a police ship no doubt
will rescue them."

"And then, from the asteroid," I suggested, "we are going--"

"To the Moon, Haljan. What a clever guesser you are! Coniston and Hahn
are calculating our course. But I have no great confidence in them. And
so I want you."

"You have me."

"Yes. I have you. I would have killed you long ago--I am an impulsive
fellow--but my sister restrained me."

He gazed at me slyly. "Moa seems strangely to like you, Haljan."

"Thanks," I said. "I'm flattered."

"She still hopes I may really win you to join us," he went on.
"Gold-leaf is a wonderful thing; there would be plenty for you in this
affair. And to be rich, and have the love of a woman like Moa...."

He paused. I was trying cautiously to gauge him, to get from him all the
information I could. I said, with another smile, "That is premature, to
talk of Moa. I will help you chart your course. But this venture, as you
call it, is dangerous. A police-ship--"

"There are not many," he declared. "The chances of us encountering one
is very slim." He grinned at me. "You know that as well as I do. And we
now have those code pass-words--I forced Dean to tell me where he had
hidden them. If we should be challenged, our pass-word answer will
relieve suspicion."

"The _Planetara_," I objected, "being overdue at Ferrok-Shahn, will
cause alarm. You'll have a covey of patrol-ships after you."

"That will be two weeks from now," he smiled. "I have a ship of my own
in Ferrok-Shahn. It lies there waiting now, manned and armed. I am
hoping that, with Dean's help, we may be able to flash it a signal. It
will join us on the Moon. Fear not for the danger, Haljan. I have great
interests allied with me in this thing. Plenty of money. We have planned
carefully."

       *       *       *       *       *

He was idly fingering his cylinder; his gaze roved me as I sat docile on
my bunk. "Did you think George Prince was a leader of this? A mere boy.
I engaged him a year ago--his knowledge of ores is valuable."

My heart was pounding, but I strove not to show it. He went on calmly.

"I told you I am impulsive. Half a dozen times I have nearly killed
George Prince, and he knows it." He frowned. "I wish I had killed him,
instead of his sister. That was an error."

There was a note of real concern in his voice. Did he love Anita Prince?
It seemed so.

He added, "That is done--nothing can change it. George Prince is helpful
to me. Your friend Dean is another. I had trouble with him, but he is
docile now."

I said abruptly, "I don't know whether your promise means anything or
not, Miko. But George Prince said you would use no more torture."

"I won't. Not if you and Dean obey me."

"You tell Dean I have agreed to that. You say he gave you the code-words
we took from Johnson?"

"Yes. There was a fool! That Johnson! You blame me, Haljan, for the
killing of Captain Carter? You need not. Johnson offered to try and
capture you. Take you alive. He killed Carter because he was angry at
him. A stupid, vengeful fool! He is dead, and I am glad of it."

       *       *       *       *       *

My mind was on Miko's plans. I ventured. "This treasure on the Moon--did
you say it was on the Moon?"

"Don't be an idiot," he retorted. "I know as much about Grantline as you
do."

"That's very little."

"Perhaps."

"Perhaps you know more, Miko. The Moon is a big place. Where, for
instance, is Grantline located?"

I held my breath. Would he tell me that? A score of questions--vague
plans--were in my mind. How skilled at mathematics were these brigands?
Miko, Hahn, Coniston--could I fool them? If I could learn Grantline's
location on the Moon, and keep the _Planetara_ away from it. A pretended
error of charting. Time lost--and perhaps Snap could find an opportunity
to signal Earth, get help.

Miko answered my question as bluntly as I asked it. "I don't know where
Grantline is located. But we will find out. He will not suspect the
_Planetara_. When we get close to the Moon, we will signal and ask him.
We can trick him into telling us. You think I do not know what is on
your mind, Haljan? There is a secret code of signals arranged between
Dean and Grantline. I have forced Dean to confess it. Without torture!
Prince helped me in that. He persuaded Dean not to defy me. A very
persuasive fellow, George Prince. More diplomatic than I am, I give him
credit."

I strove to hold my voice calm. "If I should join you, Miko--my word, if
I ever gave it, you would find dependable--I would say George Prince is
very valuable to us. You should rein your temper. He is half your
size--you might some time, without intention do him injury."

       *       *       *       *       *

He laughed. "Moa says so. But have no fear--"

"I was thinking," I persisted, "I'd like to have a talk with George
Prince."

Ah, my pounding, tumultuous heart! But I was smiling calmly. And I
tried to put into my voice a shrewd note of cupidity. "I really know
very little about this treasure, Miko. If there were a million or two of
gold-leaf in it for me--"

"Perhaps there would be."

"I was thinking. Suppose you let me have a talk with Prince? I have some
knowledge of radium ores. His skill and mine--a calculation of what
Grantline's treasure may really be. You don't know; you are only
assuming."

I paused. Whatever may have been in Miko's mind I cannot say. But
abruptly he stood up. I had left my bunk, but he waved me back.

"Sit down. I am not like Moa. I would not trust you just because you
protested you would be loyal." He picked up his cylinder. "We will talk
again." He gestured to the scrolls he had left upon my desk. "Work on
those. I will judge you by the results."

He was no fool, this brigand leader.

"Yes," I agreed. "You want a true course now to the asteroid?"

"Yes. I will get rid of these passengers. Then we will plan further. Do
your best, Haljan--no error! By the Gods, I warn you I can check up on
you!"

I said meekly, "Very well. But you ask Prince if he wants my
calculations of Grantline's ore-body."

I shot Miko a foxy look as he stood by my door. I added, "You think you
are clever. There is plenty you don't know. Our first night out from the
Earth--Grantline's signals--didn't it ever occur to you that I might
have some figures on his treasure?"

It startled him. "Where are they?"

I tapped my forehead. "You don't suppose I was foolish enough to record
them. You ask Prince if he wants to talk to me. A high thorium content
in ore--you ask Prince. A hundred millions, or two hundred. It would
make a big difference, Miko."

"I will think about it." He backed out and sealed the door upon me once
again.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Anita did not come. I verified Hahn's figures, which were very
nearly correct. I charted a course for the asteroid; it was almost the
one which had been set.

Coniston came for my results. "I say, we are not so bad as navigators,
are we? I think we're jolly good, considering our inexperience. Not bad
at all, eh?"

"No."

I did not think it wise to ask him about Prince.

"Are you hungry, Haljan?" he demanded.

"Yes."

A steward came with a meal. The saturnine Hahn stood at my door with a
weapon upon me while I ate. They were taking no chances--and they were
wise not to.

The day passed. Day and night, all the same of aspect here in the starry
vault of Space. But with the ship's routine it was day.

And then another time of sleep. I slept, fitfully, worrying, trying to
plan. Within a few hours we would be nearing the asteroid.

The time of sleep was nearly passed. My chronometer marked five A. M. of
our original Earth starting time. The seal of my cubby door hissed. The
door slowly, opened.

Anita!

She stood there with her cloak around her. A distance away on the
shadowed deck-space Coniston was loitering.

"Anita!" I whispered it.

"Gregg, dear!"

She turned and gestured to the watching brigand. "I will not be long,
Coniston."

She came in and half closed the door upon us, leaving it open enough so
that we could make sure that Coniston did not advance.

I stepped back where he could not see us.

"Anita!"

She flung herself into my opened arms.




CHAPTER XV

_The Masquerader_


A moment when beyond all thought of the nearby brigand--or the
possibility of an eavesdropping ray trained now upon my little cubby--a
moment while Anita and I held each other; and whispered those things
which could mean nothing to the world, but which were all the world to
us.

Then it was she whose wits brought us back from the shining fairyland of
our love, into the sinister reality of the _Planetara_.

"Gregg, if they are listening--"

I pushed her away. This brave little masquerader! Not for my life, or
for all the lives on the ship, would I consciously have endangered her.

"But the ore," I said aloud. "There was, in Grantline's message--See
here, Prince."

Coniston was too far away on the deck to hear us. Anita went to my door
again and waved at him reassuringly. I put my ear to the door opening,
and listened at the space across the grid of the ventilator over my
bunk. The hum of a vibration would have been audible at those two
points. But there was nothing.

"It's all right," I whispered. "Anita--not you who was killed! I can
hardly realize it now. Not you whom they buried yesterday morning."

We stood and whispered, and she clung to me--so small beside me. With
the black robe thrown aside, it seemed that I could not miss the curves
of her woman's figure. A dangerous game she was playing. Her hair had
been cut short to the base of her neck, in the fashion of her dead
brother. Her eyelashes had been clipped; the line of her brows altered.
And now, in the light of my ray tube as it shone upon her earnest face,
I could remark other changes. Glutz, the little beauty specialist, was
in this secret. With plastic skill he had altered the set of her jaw
with his wax--put masculinity there.

She was whispering: "It was--was poor George whom Miko shot."

       *       *       *       *       *

I had now the true version of what had occurred. Miko had been forcing
his wooing upon Anita. George Prince was a weakling whose only good
quality was a love for his sister. Some years ago he had fallen into
evil ways. Been arrested, and then discharged from his position with the
Federated Radium Corporation. He had taken up with evil companions in
Great-New York. Mostly Martians. And Miko had met him. His technical
knowledge, his training with the Federated Corporation, made him
valuable to Miko's enterprise. And so Prince had joined the brigands.

Of all this, Anita had been unaware. She had never liked Miko. Feared
him. And it seemed that the Martian had some hold upon her brother,
which puzzled and frightened Anita.

Then Miko had fallen in love with her. George had not liked it. And that
night on the _Planetara_, Miko had come and knocked upon Anita's door.
Incautiously she opened it; he forced himself in. And when she repulsed
him, struggled with him, George had been awakened.

She was whispering to me now. "My room was dark. We were all three
struggling. George was holding me--the shot came--and I screamed."

And Miko had fled, not knowing whom his shot had hit in the darkness.

"And when George died, Captain Carter wanted me to impersonate him. We
planned it with Dr. Frank, to try and learn what Miko and the others
were doing. Because I never knew that poor George had fallen into such
evil things."

       *       *       *       *       *

I could only hold her thankfully in my arms. The lost
what-might-have-been seemed coming back to us.

"And they cut my hair, Gregg, and Glutz altered my face a little, and I
did my best. But there was no time--it came upon us so quickly."

And she whispered, "But I love you, Gregg. I want to be the first to say
it: I love you--I love you."

But we had the sanity to try and plan.

"Anita, when you go back, tell Miko we discussed radium ores. You'll
have to be careful, clever. Don't say too much. Tell him we estimate the
treasure at a hundred and thirty millions."

I told her what Miko had vouchsafed me of his plans. She knew all that.
And Snap knew it. She had had a few moments alone with Snap. Gave me now
a message from him:

"We'll pull out of this, Gregg."

With Snap she had worked out a plan. There were Snap and I; and Shac and
Dud Ardley, upon whom we could doubtless depend. And Dr. Frank. Against
us were Miko and his sister; and Coniston and Hahn. Of course there were
the members of the crew. But we were numerically the stronger when it
came to true leadership. Unarmed and guarded now. But if we could break
loose--recapture the ship....

I sat listening to Anita's eager whispers. It seemed feasible. Miko did
not altogether trust George Prince; Anita was now unarmed.

"But I can make opportunity! I can get one of their ray cylinders, and
an invisible cloak equipment."

That cloak--it had been hidden in Miko's room when Carter searched for
it in A20--was now in the chart-room by Johnson's body. It had been
repaired now; Anita thought she could get possession of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

We worked out the details of the plan. Anita would arm herself, and come
and release me. Together, with a paralyzing ray, we could creep aboard
the ship, overcome these brigands one by one. There were so few of the
leaders. With them felled, and with us in control of the turret and the
helio-room we could force the crew to stay at their posts. There were,
Anita said, no navigators among Miko's crew. They would not dare oppose
us.

"But it should be done at once, Anita. In a few hours we will be at the
asteroid."

"Yes. I will go now--try and get the weapons."

"Where is Snap?"

"Still in the helio-room. One of the crew guards him."

Coniston was roaming the ship; he was still loitering on the deck,
watching our door. Hahn was in the turret. The morning watch of the crew
were at their posts in the hull-corridors; the stewards were preparing a
morning meal. There were nine members of subordinates altogether, Anita
had calculated. Six of them were in Miko's pay; the other three--our own
men who had not been killed in the fighting--had joined the brigands.

"And Dr. Frank, Anita?"

He was in the lounge. All the passengers were herded there, with Miko
and Moa alternating on guard.

"I will arrange it with Venza," Anita whispered swiftly. "She will tell
the others. Dr. Frank knows about it now. He thinks it can be done."

       *       *       *       *       *

The possibility of it swept me anew. The brigands were of necessity
scattered singly about the ship. One by one, creeping under cover of an
invisible cloak, I could fell them, and replace them without alarming
the others. My thoughts leaped to it. We would strike down the guard in
the helio-room. Release Snap. At the turret we could assail Hahn, and
replace him with Snap.

Coniston's voice outside broke in upon us. "Prince."

He was coming forward. Anita stood in the doorway. "I have the figures,
Coniston. By God, this Haljan is with us! And clever! We think it will
total a hundred and thirty millions. What a stake!"

She whispered, "Gregg, dear--I'll be back soon. We can do it--be ready."

"Anita--be careful of yourself! If they should suspect you...."

"I'll be careful. In an hour, Gregg, or less, I'll come back. All right,
Coniston. Where is Miko? I want to see him. Stay where you are, Haljan!
All in good time Miko will trust you with your liberty. You'll be rich
like us all, never fear."

She swaggered out upon the deck, waved at the brigand, and banged my
cubby door in my face.

I sat upon my bunk. Waiting. Would she come back? Would she be
successful?




CHAPTER XVI

_In the Blue-lit Corridor_


She came. I suppose it was no more than an hour: it seemed an eternity
of apprehension. There was the slight hissing of the seal of my door.
The panel slid. I had leaped from my bunk where in the darkness I was
lying tense.

"Prince?" I did not dare say, "Anita."

"Gregg."

Her voice. My gaze swept the deck as the panel opened. Neither Coniston
nor anyone else was in sight, save Anita's dark-robed figure which came
into my room.

"You got it?" I asked her in a low whisper.

I held her for an instant, kissed her. But she pushed me away with quick
hands.

"Gregg, dear--"

She was breathless. My kisses, and the tenseness of what lay before us
were to blame.

"Gregg, see, I have it. Give us a little light--we must hurry!"

In the blue dimness I saw that she was holding one of the Martian
cylinders. The smallest size; it would paralyze, but not kill.

"Only one, Anita?"

"Yes. I had it before, but Miko took it from me. It was in his room. And
this--"

The invisible cloak. We laid it on my grid, and I adjusted its
mechanism. A cloak of the reflecting-absorbing variety.[A]


  [A] The principle of this invisible cloak involves the use of an
  electronized fabric. All color is absorbed. The light rays reflected to
  the eye of the observer thus show an image of empty blackness. There is
  also created about the cloak a magnetic field which by natural laws
  bends the rays of light from objects behind it. This principle of the
  natural bending of light when passing through a magnetic field was first
  recognized by Albert Einstein, a scientist of the Twentieth century. In
  the case of this invisible cloak, the bending light rays, by making
  visible what was behind the cloak's blackness, thus destroyed its solid
  black outline and gave a pseudo-invisibility which was fairly effective
  under favorable conditions.

       *       *       *       *       *

I donned it, and drew its hood, and threw on its current.

"All right, Anita?"

"Yes."

"Can you see me?"

"No." She stepped back a foot or two further. "Not from here. But you
must let no one approach too close."

Then she came forward, put out her hand, fumbled until she found me.

It was our plan to have me follow her out. Anyone observing us would see
only the robed figure of the supposed George Prince, and I would escape
notice.

The situation about the ship was almost unchanged. Anita had secured the
weapon and the cloak and slipped away to my cubby without being
observed.

"You're sure of that?"

"I think so, Gregg. I was careful."

Moa was now in the lounge, guarding the passengers. Hahn was asleep in
the chart-room; Coniston was in the turret. Coniston would be off duty
presently, Anita said, with Hahn taking his place. There were look-outs
in the forward and stern watch-towers, and a guard upon Snap in the
helio-room.

"Is he inside the room, Anita?"

"Snap? Yes."

"No--the guard."

"No. He was sitting upon the spider bridge at the door."

       *       *       *       *       *

This was unfortunate. That guard could see all the deck clearly. He
might be suspicious of George Prince wandering around; it would be
difficult to get near enough to assail him. This cylinder, I knew, had
an effective range of only some twenty feet.

Anita and I were swiftly whispering. It was necessary now to decide
exactly what we were to do; once under observation outside, there must
be no hesitation, no fumbling.

"Coniston is sharpest, Gregg. He will be the hardest to get near."

The languid-spoken Englishman was the one Anita most feared. His alert
eyes seemed to miss nothing. Perhaps he was suspicious of this George
Prince--Anita thought so.

"But where is Miko?" I whispered.

The brigand leader had gone below a few moments ago, down into the
hull-corridor. Anita had seized the opportunity to come to me.

"We can attack Hahn in the chart-room first," I suggested. "And get the
other weapons. Are they still there?"

"Yes. But Gregg, the forward deck is very bright."

We were approaching the asteroid. Already its light like a brilliant
moon was brightening the forward deck-space. It made me realize how much
haste was necessary.

We decided to go down into the hull-corridors. Locate Miko. Fell him,
and hide him. His non-appearance back on deck would very soon throw the
others into confusion, especially now with our impending landing upon
the asteroid. And under cover of this confusion we would try and release
Snap.

We had been arguing no more than a minute or two. We were ready. Anita
slid my door wide. She stepped through, with me soundlessly scurrying
after her. The empty, silent deck was alternately dark with
shadow-patches and bright with blobs of starlight. A sheen of the Sun's
corona was mingled with it; and from forward came the radiance of the
asteroid's mellow silver glow.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anita turned to seal my door; within my faintly humming cloak I stood
beside her. Was I invisible in this light? Almost directly over us,
close under the dome, the look-out sat in his little tower. He gazed
down at Anita.

Amidships, high over the cabin superstructure, the helio-room hung dark
and silent. The guard on its bridge was visible. He, too, looked down.

A tense instant. Then I breathed again. There was no alarm. The two
guards answered Anita's gesture.

Anita said aloud into my empty cubby: "Miko will come for you presently,
Haljan. He told me to tell you that he wants you at the turret controls
to land us on the asteroid."

She finished sealing my door and turned away; started forward along the
deck. I followed. My steps were soundless in my elastic-bottomed shoes.
Anita swaggered with a noisy tread. Near the door of the smoking room a
small incline passage led downward. We went into it.

The passage was dimly blue-lit. We descended its length, came to the
main corridor, which ran the length of the hull. A vaulted metal
passage, with doors to the control rooms opening from it. Dim lights
showed at intervals.

       *       *       *       *       *

The humming of the ship was more apparent here. It drowned the slight
humming of my cloak. I crept after Anita; my hand under the cloak
clutched the ray weapon.

A steward passed us. I shrank aside to avoid him.

Anita spoke to him. "Where is Miko, Ellis?"

"In the ventilator-room, Mr. Prince. There was difficulty with the air
renewal."

Anita nodded, and moved on. I could have felled that steward as he
passed me. Oh, if I only had, how different things might have been!

But it seemed needless. I let him go, and he turned into a nearby door
which led to the galley.

Anita moved forward. If we could come upon Miko alone. Abruptly she
turned, and whispered, "Gregg, if other men are with him, I'll draw him
away. You watch your chance."

What little things may overthrow one's careful plans! Anita had not
realized how close to her I was following. And her turning so
unexpectedly caused me to collide with her sharply.

"Oh!" She exclaimed it involuntarily. Her outflung hand had unwittingly
gripped my wrist, caught the electrode there. The touch burned her, and
close-circuited my robe. There was a hiss. My current burned out the
tiny fuses.

My invisibility was gone! I stood, a tall black-hooded figure, revealed
to the gaze of anyone who might be near!

The futile plans of humans! We had planned so carefully! Our
calculations, our hopes of what we could do, came clattering now in a
sudden wreckage around us.

"Anita, run!"

If I were seen with her, then her own disguise would probably be
discovered. That above everything would be disaster!

"Anita, get away from me! I must try it alone!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I could hide somewhere, repair the cloak perhaps. Or, since now I was
armed, why could I not boldly start an assault?

"Gregg, we must get you back to your cubby!" She was clinging to me in a
panic.

"No! You run! Get away from me! Don't you understand? George Prince has
no business here with me! They'd kill you!"

Or worse--- Miko would discover it was Anita, not George Prince.

"Gregg, let's get back to the deck."

I pushed at her. Both of us in sudden confusion.

From behind me there came a shout. That accursed steward! He had
returned, to investigate perhaps what George Prince was doing in this
corridor. He heard our voices; his shout in the silence of the ship
sounded horribly loud. The white-clothed shape of him was in the nearby
doorway. He stood stricken in surprise at seeing me. And then turned to
run.

I fired my paralyzing cylinder through my cloak. Got him! He fell. I
shoved Anita violently.

"Run! Tell Miko to come--tell him you heard a shout! He won't suspect
you!"

"But Gregg--"

"You mustn't be found out! You're our only hope, Anita! I'll hide, fix
the cloak, or get back to my cubby. We'll try it again."

It decided her. She scurried down the corridor. I whirled the other way.
The steward's shout might not have been heard.

Then realization flashed to me. That steward would be revived. He was
one of Miko's men: for two voyages he had been a spy upon the
_Planetara_. He would be revived and tell what he had seen and heard.
Anita's disguise would be revealed.

A cold-blooded killing I do protest went against me. But it was
necessary. I flung myself upon him. I beat his skull with the metal of
my cylinder.

I stood up. My hood had fallen back from my head. I wiped my bloody
hands on my useless cloak. I had smashed the cylinder.

"Haljan!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Anita's voice! A sharp note of horror and warning. I became aware that
in the corridor, forty feet down its dim length, Miko had appeared, with
Anita behind him. His rifle-bullet-projector was leveled. It spat at me.
But Anita had pulled at his arm.

The explosive report was sharply deafening in the confined space of the
corridor. With a spurt of flame the leaden pellet struck over my head
against the vaulted ceiling.

Miko was struggling with Anita. "Prince, you idiot!"

"Miko, don't! It's Haljan! Don't kill him--"

The turmoil brought members of the crew. From the shadowed oval near me
they came running. I flung the useless cylinder at them. But I was
trapped in the narrow passage.

I might have fought my way out. Or Miko might have shot me. But there
was the danger that, in her horror, Anita would betray herself.

I backed against the wall. "Don't kill me! See, I will not fight!"

I flung up my arms. And the crew, emboldened, and courageous under
Miko's gaze, leaped on me and bore me down.

The futile plans of humans! Anita and I had planned so carefully, and in
a few brief minutes of action it had come only to this!




CHAPTER XVII

_A Woman of Mars_


"So, Gregg Haljan, you are not as loyal as you pretend!"

Miko was livid with suppressed anger. They had stripped the cloak from
me, and flung me back in my cubby. Miko was now confronting me; at the
door Moa stood watching. And Anita was behind her. I sat outwardly
defiant and sullen on my bunk. But I was alert and tense, fearful still
of what Anita's emotion might betray her into doing.

"Not so loyal," Miko repeated. "And a fool! Do you think I am such a
child you can escape me!"

He swung around. "How did he get out of here? Prince, you came in here!"

My heart was wildly thumping. But Anita retorted with a touch of spirit:

"I came to tell him what you commanded. To check Hahn's latest
figures--and to be ready to take the controls when we go into the
asteroid's atmosphere."

"Well, how did he get out?"

"How should I know?" she parried. Little actress! Her spirit helped to
allay my fear. She held her cloak close around her in the fashion they
had come to expect from the George Prince who had just buried his
sister. "How should I know, Miko? I sealed his door."

"But did you?"

"Of course he did," Moa put in.

"Ask your look-outs," said Anita. "They saw me--I waved to them just as
I sealed the door."

I ventured, "I have been taught to open doors." I managed a sly,
lugubrious smile. "I shall not try it again, Miko."

Nothing had been said about my killing of the steward. I thanked my
constellations now that he was dead. "I shall not try it again," I
repeated.

A glance passed between Miko and his sister. Miko said abruptly, "You
seem to realize that it is not my purpose to kill you. And you presume
upon it."

"I shall not again." I eyed Moa. She was gazing at me steadily. She
said, "Leave me with him, Miko...." She smiled. "Gregg Haljan, we are no
more than twenty thousand miles from the asteroid now. The calculations
for retarding are now in operation."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was what had taken Miko below, that and trouble with the ventilating
system, which was soon rectified. But the retarding of the ship's
velocity when nearing a destination required accurate manipulation.
These brigands were fearful of their own skill. That was obvious. It
gave me confidence. I was really needed. They would not harm me. Except
for Miko's impulsive temper, I was in no danger from them--not now,
certainly.

Moa was saying, "I think I may make you understand, Gregg. We have
tremendous riches within our grasp."

"I know it," I added with sudden thought. "But there are many with whom
to divide this treasure...."

Miko caught my intended implication. "By the infernal, this fellow may
have felt he could seize the treasure for himself! Because he is a
navigator!"

Moa said vehemently, "Do not be an idiot, Gregg! You could not do it!
There will be fighting with Grantline."

My purpose was accomplished. They seemed to see me a willing outlaw like
themselves. As though it were a bond between us. And they could win me.

"Leave me with him," said Moa.

Miko acquiesced. "For a few minutes only." He proffered a heat-ray
cylinder, but she refused it.

"I am not afraid of him."

Miko swung on me. "Within an hour we will be nearing the atmosphere.
Will you take the controls?"

"Yes."

       *       *       *       *       *

He set his heavy jaw. His eyes bored into me. "You're a strange fellow,
Haljan. I can't make you out. I am not angry now. Do you think, when I
am deadly serious, that I mean what I say?"

His calm words set a sudden shiver over me. I checked my smile.

"Yes," I said.

"Well then, I will tell you this: not for all of Prince's well-meaning
interference, or Moa's liking for you, or my own need of your skill,
will I tolerate more trouble from you. The next time--I will kill you.
Do you believe me?"

"Yes."

"That is all I want to say. You kill my men, and my sister says I must
not hurt you. I am not a child to be ruled by a woman!"

He held his huge fist before my face. "With these fingers I will twist
your neck! Do you believe it?"

"Yes." I did indeed.

He swung on his heel. "If Moa wants to try and put sense into your
head--I hope she does. Bring him to the lounge when you are finished,
Moa. Come, Prince--Hahn will need us." He chuckled grimly. "Hahn seems
to fear we will plunge into this asteroid like a wild comet gone
suddenly tangent!"

Anita moved aside to let him through the door. I caught a glimpse of her
set white face as she followed him down the deck.

Then Moa's bulk blocked the doorway. She faced me.

"Sit where you are, Gregg." She turned and closed the door upon us. "I
am not afraid of you. Should I be?"

"No," I said.

She came and sat down beside me. "If you should attempt to leave this
room, the stern look-out has orders to bore you through."

"I have no intention of leaving the room," I retorted. "I do not want to
commit suicide."

"I thought you did. You seem minded in such a fashion. Gregg, why are
you so foolish?"

       *       *       *       *       *

I remained silent.

"Why?" she demanded.

I said carefully, "This treasure--you are many who will divide it. You
have all these men on the _Planetara_. And in Ferrok-Shahn, others, no
doubt."

I paused. Would she tell me? Could I make her talk of that other brigand
ship which Miko had said was waiting on Mars? I wondered if he had been
able to signal it. The distance from here to Mars was great; yet upon
other voyages Snap's signals had gotten through. My heart sank at the
thought. Our situation here was desperate enough. The passengers soon
would be cast upon the asteroid: there would be left only Snap, Anita
and myself. We might recapture the ship, but I doubted it now. My
thoughts were turning to our arrival upon the Moon. We three might,
perhaps, be able to thwart the attack upon Grantline, hold the brigands
off until help from the Earth might come.

But with another brigand ship, fully manned and armed, coming from Mars,
the condition would be immeasurably worse. Grantline had some twenty
men, and his camp, I knew, would be reasonably fortified. I knew, too,
that Johnny Grantline would fight to his last man.

Moa was saying, "I would like to tell you our plans, Gregg."

Her gaze was on my face. Keen eyes, but they were luminous now--an
emotion in them sweeping her. But outwardly she was calm, stern-lipped.

"Well, why don't you tell me?" I said. "If I am to help you...."

"Gregg, I want you with us. Don't you understand? We are not many. My
brother and I are guiding this affair. With your help, I would feel
differently."

"The ship at Ferrok-Shahn--"

       *       *       *       *       *

My fears were realized. She said, "I think our signals reached it. Dean
tried, and Coniston was checking him."

"You think the ship is coming?"

"Yes."

"Where will it join us?"

"At the Moon. We will be there in thirty hours. Your figures gave that,
did they not, Gregg?"

"Yes. And the other ship--how fast is it?"

"Quite fast. In eight days--or nine, perhaps--it will reach the Moon."

She seemed willing enough to talk. There was indeed, no particular
reason for reticence; I could not, she naturally felt, turn the
knowledge to account.

"Manned--" I prompted.

"About forty men."

"And armed? Long range projectors?"

"You ask very avid questions, Gregg!"

"Why should I not? Don't you suppose I'm interested?" I touched her.
"Moa, did it ever occur to you, if once you and Miko trusted me--which
you don't--I might show more interest in joining you?"

The look on her face emboldened me. "Did you ever think of that, Moa?
And some arrangement for my share of this treasure? I am not like
Johnson, to be hired for a hundred pounds of gold-leaf."

"Gregg, I will see that you get your share. Riches, for you--and me."

"I was thinking, Moa, when we land at the Moon to-morrow--where is our
equipment?"

The Moon, with its lack of atmosphere, needed special equipment. I had
never heard Carter mention what apparatus the _Planetara_ was carrying.

       *       *       *       *       *

Moa laughed. "We have located air-suits and helmets--a variety of
suitable apparatus, Gregg. But we were not foolish enough to leave
Great-New York on this voyage without our own arrangements. My brother,
and Coniston and Prince--all of us shipped crates of freight consigned
to Ferrok-Shahn--and Rankin had special baggage marked 'theatrical
apparatus.'"

I understood it now. These brigands had boarded the _Planetara_ with
their own Moon equipment, disguised as freight and personal baggage.
Shipped in bond, to be inspected by the tax officials of Mars.

"It is on board now. We will open it when we leave the asteroid, Gregg.
We are well equipped."

She bent toward me. And suddenly her long lean fingers were gripping my
shoulders.

"Gregg, look at me!"

I gazed into her eyes. There was passion there; and her voice was
suddenly intense.

"Gregg, I told you once a Martian girl goes after what she wants. It is
you I want--"

Not for me to play like a cad upon a woman's emotions! "Moa, you flatter
me."

"I love you." She held me off, gazing at me. "Gregg--"

I must have smiled. And abruptly she released me.

"So you think it amusing?"

"No. But on Earth--"

"We are not on the Earth. Nor am I of the Earth!" She was gauging me
keenly. No note of pleading was in her voice; a stern authority; and the
passion was swinging to anger.

"I am like my brother: I do not understand you, Gregg Haljan. Perhaps
you think you are clever? It seems stupidity, the fatuousness of man!"

"Perhaps," I said.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a moment of silence. "Gregg, I said I loved you. Have you no
answer?"

"No." In truth, I did not know what sort of answer it would be best to
make. Whatever she must have read in my eyes, it stirred her to fury.
Her fingers with the strength of a man in them, dug into my shoulders.
Her gaze searched me.

"You think you love someone else? Is that it?"

That was horribly startling; but she did not mean it just that way. She
amended with caustic venom: "That little Anita Prince! You thought you
loved her! Was that it?"

"No!"

But I hardly deceived her. "Sacred to her memory! Her ratlike little
face--soft voice like a purring, sniveling cat! Is that what you're
remembering, Gregg Haljan?" she sneered.

I tried to laugh. "What nonsense!"

"Is it? Then why are you cold under my touch? Am I--a girl descended
from the Martian flame-workers--impotent now to awaken a man?"

A woman scorned! In all the Universe there could be no more dangerous an
enemy. An incredible venom shot from her eyes.

"That miserable mouselike creature! Well for her that my brother killed
her."

It struck me cold. If Anita was unmasked, beyond all the menace of
Miko's wooing, I knew that the venom of Moa's jealousy was a greater
danger.

I said sharply, "Don't be simple, Moa!" I shook off her grip. "You
imagine too much. You forget that I am a man of the Earth and you a girl
of Mars."

"Is that reason why we should not love?"

"No. But our instincts are different. Men of the Earth are born to the
chase."

       *       *       *       *       *

I was smiling. With thought of Anita's danger I could find it readily in
my heart to dupe this Amazon.

"Give me time, Moa. You attract me."

"You lie!"

"Do you think so?" I gripped her arm with all the power of my fingers.
It must have hurt her, but she gave no sign; her gaze clung to me
steadily.

"I don't know what to think, Gregg Haljan...."

I held my grip. "Think what you like. Men of Earth have been known to
kill the thing they love."

"You want me to fear you?"

"Perhaps."

She smiled scornfully. "That is absurd."

I released her. I said earnestly, "I want you to realize that if you
treat me fairly, I can be of great advantage to this venture. There will
be fighting--I am fearless."

Her venomous expression was softening. "I think that is true, Gregg."

"And you need my navigating skill. Even now I should be in the turret."

I stood up. I half expected she would stop me, but she did not. I added,
"Shall we go?"

She stood beside me. Her height brought her face level with mine.

"I think you will cause no more trouble, Gregg?"

"Of course not. I am not wholly witless."

"You have been."

"Well, that is over." I hesitated. Then I added, "A man of Earth does
not yield to love when there is work to do. This treasure--"

I think that of everything I said, this last most convinced her.

She interrupted, "That I understand." Her eyes were smoldering. "When it
is over--when we are rich--then I will claim you, Gregg."

       *       *       *       *       *

She turned from me. "Are you ready?"

"Yes. No! I must get that sheet of Hahn's last figures."

"Are they checked?"

"Yes." I picked the sheet up from my desk. "Hahn is fairly accurate,
Moa."

"A fool nevertheless. An apprehensive fool."

A comradeship seemed coming between us. It was my purpose to establish
it.

"Are we going to maroon Dr. Frank with the passengers?" I asked.

"Yes."

"But he may be of use to us." I wanted Dr. Frank kept aboard. I still
felt that there was a chance for us to recapture the ship.

But Moa shook her head decisively. "My brother has decided not. We will
be well rid of Dr. Frank. Are you ready, Gregg?"

"Yes."

She opened the door. Her gesture reassured the look-out, who was alertly
watching the stern watch-tower.

"Come, Gregg."

I stepped out, and followed her forward along the deck, which now was
bright with the radiance of the nearby asteroid.




CHAPTER XVIII

_Marooned on an Asteroid_


A fair little world. I had thought so before; and I thought so now as I
gazed at the asteroid hanging so close before our bow. A huge, thin
crescent, with the Sun off to one side behind it. A silver crescent,
tinged with red. From this near viewpoint, all of the little globe's
disc was visible. The shadowed portion lay dimly red, mysteriously; the
sunlit crescent--widening visibly is we approached--was gleaming silver.
Inky moonlike shadows in the hollows, brilliant light upon the mountain
heights. The seas lay in gray patches. The convexity of the disc was
sharply defined. So small a world! Fair and beautiful, shrouded with
clouded areas.

"Where is Miko?"

"In the lounge, Gregg."

"Can we stop there?"

Moa turned into the lounge archway. Strange, tense scene. I saw Anita at
once. Her robed figure lurked in an inconspicuous corner; her eyes were
upon me as Moa and I entered, but she did not move. The thirty-odd
passengers were huddled in a group. Solemn, white-faced men, frightened
women. Some of them were sobbing. One Earth-woman--a young widow--sat
holding her little girl, and wailing with uncontrolled hysteria. The
child knew me. As I appeared now, with my gold-laced white coat over my
shoulders, the little child seemed to see in my uniform a mark of
authority. She left her mother and ran to me.

"You, please--you will help us? My moms is crying."

I sent her gently back. But there came upon me then a compassion for
these innocent passengers, fated to have embarked upon this ill-starred
voyage. Herded here in this cabin, with brigands like pirates of old
guarding them. Waiting now to be marooned on an uninhabited asteroid
roaming in space. A sense of responsibility swept me. I swung upon Miko.
He stood with a nonchalant grace, lounging against the wall with a
cylinder dangling in his hand. He anticipated me.

"So, Haljan--she put some sense into your head? No more trouble? Then
get into the turret. Moa, stay there with him. Send Hahn here. Where is
that ass Coniston? We will be in the atmosphere shortly."

I said, "No more trouble from me, Miko. But these passengers--what
preparation are you making for them on the asteroid?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He stared in surprise. Then he laughed. "I am no murderer. The crew is
preparing food, all we can spare. And tools. They can build themselves
shelter--they will be picked up in a few weeks."

Dr. Frank was here. I caught his gaze, but he did not speak. On the
lounge couches there still lay the quarter-score bodies. Rankin, who
had been killed by Blackstone in the fight; a man passenger killed; a
woman and a man wounded.

Miko added, "Dr. Frank will take his medical supplies--he will care for
the wounded. There are other bodies among the crew." His gesture was
deprecating. "I have not buried them. We will put them ashore; easier
that way."

The passengers were all eyeing me. I said:

"You have nothing to fear. I will guarantee you the best equipment we
can spare. You will give them apparatus with which to signal?" I
demanded of Miko.

"Yes. Get to the turret."

I turned away, with Moa after me. Again the little girl ran forward.

"Come--speak to my moms! She is crying."

It was across the cabin from Miko. Coniston had appeared from the deck;
it created a slight diversion. He joined Miko.

"Wait," I said to Moa. "She is afraid of you. This is humanity."

I pushed Moa back. I followed the child. I had seen that Venza was
sitting with the child's weeping mother. This was a ruse to get word
with me.

I stood before the terrified woman while the little girl clung to my
legs.

I said gently, "Don't be so frightened. Dr. Frank will take care of you.
There is no danger--you will be safer on the asteroid than here on the
ship."

I leaned down and touched her shoulder. "There is no danger."

       *       *       *       *       *

I was between Venza and the open cabin. Venza whispered swiftly, "When
we are landing, Gregg, I want you to make a commotion--anything--just as
the women passengers go ashore."

"Why? No, of course you will have food, Mrs. Francis."

"Never mind! An instant. Just confusion. Go, Gregg--don't speak now!"

I raised the child. "You take care of mother." I kissed her.

From across the cabin Miko's sardonic voice made me turn. "Touching
sentimentality, Haljan! Get to your post in the turret!"

His rasping note of annoyance brooked no delay. I set the child down. I
said, "I will land us in an hour. Depend on it."

Hahn was at the controls when Moa and I reached the turret.

"You will land us safely, Haljan?" he demanded anxiously.

I pushed him away. "Miko wants you in the lounge."

"You take command here?"

"Of course, Hahn. I am no more anxious for a crash than you."

He sighed with relief. "That is true. I am no expert at atmospheric
entry, Haljan--nor Coniston, nor Miko."

"Have no fear. Sit down, Moa."

I waved to the look-out in the forward watch-tower, and got his routine
gesture. I rang the corridor bells, and the normal signals came promptly
back.

"It's correct, Hahn. Get away with you." I called after him. "Tell Miko
that things are all right here."

Hahn's small dark figure, lithe as a leopard in his tight fitting
trousers and jacket with his robe now discarded, went swiftly down the
spider incline and across the deck.

"Moa, where is Snap? By the infernal, if he has been injured!--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Up on the helio-room bridge the brigand guard still sat. Then I saw that
Snap was out there sitting with him. I waved from the turret window, and
Snap's cheery gesture answered me. His voice carried down through the
silver moonlight: "Land us safely, Gregg. These weird amateur
navigators!"

Within the hour I had us dropping into the asteroid's atmosphere. The
ship heated steadily. The pressure went up. It kept me busy with the
instruments and the calculations. But my signals were always promptly
answered from below. The brigand crew did its part efficiently.

At a hundred and fifty thousand feet I shifted the gravity plates to the
landing combinations, and started the electronic engines.

"All safe, Gregg?" Moa sat at my elbow; her eyes, with what seemed a
glow of admiration in them, followed my busy routine activities.

"Yes. The crew works well."

The electronic streams flowed out like a rocket tail behind us. The
_Planetara_ caught their impetus. In the rarified air, our bow lifted
slightly, like a ship riding a gentle ground swell. At a hundred
thousand feet we sailed gently forward, hull down to the asteroid's
surface, cruising to seek a landing space.

A little sea was now beneath us. A shadowed sea, deep purple in the
night down there. Occasional green-verdured islands showed, with the
lines of white surf marking them. Beyond the sea, a curving coastline
was visible. Rocky headlines, behind which mountain foothills rose in
serrated, verdured ranks. The sunlight edged the distant mountains; and
presently this rapidly turning little world brought the sunlight
forward.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was day beneath us. We slid gently downward. Thirty thousand feet
now, above a sparkling blue ocean. The coastline was just ahead: green
with a lush, tropical vegetation. Giant trees, huge-leaved. Long
dangling vines; air plants, with giant pods and vivid orchidlike
blossoms.

I sat at the turret window, staring through my glasses. A fair little
world, yet obviously uninhabited. I could fancy that all this was
newly-sprung vegetation. This asteroid had whirled in from the cold of
the interplanetary space far outside our Solar System. A few years
ago--as time might be measured astronomically, it was no more than
yesterday--this fair landscape was congealed white and bleak, with a
sweep of glacial ice. But the seeds of life miraculously were here. The
miracle of life! Under the warming, germinating sunlight, the verdure
sprung.

"Can you find landing space, Gregg?"

Moa's question brought back my wandering fancies. I saw an upland glade,
a level spread of ferns with the forest banked around it. A cliff-height
nearby, frowning down at the sea.

"Yes. I can land us there." I showed her through the glasses. I rang the
sirens, and we spiraled, descending further. The mountain tops were now
close beneath us. Clouds were overhead, white masses with blue sky
behind them. A day of brilliant sunlight. But soon, with our forward
cruising, it was night. The sunlight dropped beneath the sharply convex
horizon; the sea and the land went purple.

A night of brilliant stars; the Earth was a blazing blue-red point of
light. The heavens visibly were revolving; in an hour or so it would be
daylight again.

On the forward deck now Coniston had appeared, commanding half a dozen
of the crew. They were carrying up caskets of food and the equipment
which was to be given the marooned passengers. And making ready the
disembarking incline, loosening the seals of the side-dome windows.

Sternward on the deck, by the lounge oval, I could see Miko standing.
And occasionally the roar of his voice at the passengers sounded.

       *       *       *       *       *

My vagrant thought flung back into Earth's history. Like this, ancient
travelers of the surface of the sea were herded by pirates to walk the
plank, or put ashore, marooned upon some fair desert island of the
tropic Spanish main.

Hahn came mounting our turret incline. "All is well, Gregg Haljan?"

"Get to your work," Moa told him sharply. "We land in an hour-quadrant."

He retreated, joining the bustle and confusion which now was beginning
on the deck. It struck me--could I turn that confusion to account? Would
it be possible, now at the last moment, to attack these brigands? Snap
still sat outside the helio-room doorway. But his guard was alert, with
upraised projector. And that guard, I saw, in his position high
amidships, commanded all the deck.

And I saw too, as the passengers now were herded in a line from the
lounge oval, that Miko had roped and bound all of the men. And a
clanking chain connected them. They came like a line of convicts,
marching forward, and stopped on the open deck-space near the base of
the turret. Dr. Frank's grim face gazed up at me.

Miko ordered the women and children in a group beside the chained men.
His words to them reached me: "You are in no danger. When we land, be
careful. You will find gravity very different--this is a very small
world."

I flung on the landing lights; the deck glowed with the blue radiance;
the search-beams shot down beside our hull. We hung now a thousand feet
above the forest glade. I cut off the electronic streams. We poised,
with the gravity-plates set at normal, and only a gentle night-breeze to
give us a slight side drift. This I could control with the lateral
propeller rudders.

For all my busy landing routine, my mind was on other things. Venza's
swift words back there in the lounge. I was to create a commotion while
the passengers were landing. Why? Had she and Dr. Frank, perhaps, some
last minute desperate purposes?

       *       *       *       *       *

I determined I would do what she said. Shout, or mis-order the lights.
That would be easy. But to what advantage?

I was glad it was night--I had, indeed, calculated our descent so that
the landing would be in darkness. But to what purpose? These brigands
were very alert. There was nothing I could think of to do which would
avail us anything more than a possible swift death under Miko's anger.

"Well done, Gregg!" said Moa.

I cut off the last of the propellers. With scarcely a perceptible jar,
the _Planetara_ grounded, rose like a feather and settled to rest in the
glade. The deep purple night with stars overhead was around us. I hissed
out our interior air through the dome and hull-ports, and admitted the
night-air of the asteroid. My calculations--of necessity mere
mathematical approximations--proved fairly accurate. In temperature and
pressure there was no radical change as the dome-windows slid back.

We had landed. Whatever Venza's purpose, her moment was at hand. I was
tense. But I was aware also, that beside me Moa was very alert. I had
thought her unarmed. She was not. She sat back from me; in her hand was
a small thin knife-blade.

She murmured tensely, "You have done your part, Gregg. Well and
skillfully done. Now we will sit here quietly and watch them land."

Snap's guard was standing, keenly watching. The look-outs in the forward
and stern towers were also armed; I could see them both gazing keenly
down at the confusion of the blue-lit deck.

The incline went over the hull-side and touched the ground.

"Enough!" Miko roared. "The men first. Hahn, move the women back!
Coniston, pile those caskets to the side. Get out of the way, Prince."

       *       *       *       *       *

Anita was down there. I saw her at the edge of the group of women. Venza
was near her.

Miko shoved her. "Get out of the way, Prince. You can help Coniston.
Have the things ready to throw off."

Five of the steward-crew were at the head of the incline. Miko shouted
up at me:

"Haljan, hold our shipboard gravity normal."

"Yes," I responded.

I had done so. Our magnitizers had been adjusted to the shifting
calculations of our landing. They were holding now at intensities, so
that upon the _Planetara_ no change from fairly normal Earth-gravity
was apparent. I rang a tentative inquiry signal; the operator in the
hull-magnetizer control answered that he was at his post.

The line of men were first to descend. Dr. Frank led them. He flashed a
look of farewell up at me and Snap as he went down the incline with the
chained men passengers after him.

Motley procession! Twenty odd, dishevelled, half-clothed men of three
worlds. The changing, lightening gravity on the incline caught them. Dr.
Frank bounded up to the rail under the impetus of his step: caught and
held himself, drew himself back. The line swayed. In the dim, blue-lit
glare it seemed unreal, crazy. A grotesque dream of men descending a
plank.

They reached the forest glade. Stood swaying, afraid at first to move.
The purple night crowded them; they stood gazing at this strange world,
their new prison.

"Now the women."

Miko was shoving the women to the head of the incline. I could feel
Moa's steady gaze upon me. Her knife-blade gleamed in the turret light.

She murmured again, "In a few minutes you can ring us away, Gregg."

       *       *       *       *       *

I felt like an actor awaiting his cue in the wings of some turgid drama
the plot of which he did not know. Venza was near the head of the
incline. Some of the women and children were on it. A woman screamed.
Her child had slipped from her hand, bounded up over the rail, and
fallen. Hardly fallen--floated down to the ground, with flailing arms
and legs, landing in the dark ferns, unharmed. Its terrified wail came
up.

There was a confusion on the incline. Venza, still on the deck, seemed
to send a look of appeal to the turret. My cue?

I slid my hand to the light switchboard. It was near my knees. I pulled
a switch. The blue-lit deck beneath the turret went dark.

I recall an instant of horrible, tense silence, and in the gloom beside
me I was aware of Moa moving. I felt a thrill of instinctive fear--would
she plunge that knife into me?

The silence of the darkened deck was broken with a confusion of sounds.
A babble of voices; a woman passenger's scream; shuffling of feet; and
above it all, Miko's roar:

"Stand quiet! Everyone! No movement!"

On the descending incline there was chaos. The disembarking women were
clinging to the gang-rail; some of them had evidently surged over it and
fallen. Down on the ground in the purple-shadowed starlight I could
vaguely see the chained line of men. They too were in confusion, trying
to shove themselves toward the fallen women.

Miko roared:

"Light those tubes! Gregg Haljan! By the Almighty, Moa, are you up
there? What is wrong? The light-tubes--"

Dark drama of unknown plot! I wonder if I should try and leave the
turret. Where was Anita? She had been down there on the deck when I
flung out the lights.

I think twenty seconds would have covered it all. I had not moved. I
thought, "Is Snap concerned with this?"

Moa's knife could have stabbed me. I felt her lunge against me; and
suddenly I was gripping her, twisting her wrist. But she flung the knife
away. Her strength was almost the equal of my own. Her hand went for my
throat, and with the other hand she was fumbling.

       *       *       *       *       *

The deck abruptly sprang into light again. Moa had found the switch and
threw it back.

"Gregg!"

She fought me as I tried to reach the switch. I saw down on the deck
Miko gazing up at us. Moa panted, "Gregg--stop! If he--sees you doing
this, he'll kill you--"

The scene down there was almost unchanged. I had answered my cue. To
what purpose? I saw Anita near Miko. The last of the women were on the
plank.

I had stopped struggling with Moa. She sat back, panting; and then she
called: "Sorry, Miko. It will not happen again."

Miko was in a towering rage. But he was too busy to bother with me; his
anger swung on those nearest him. He shoved the last of the women
violently at the incline. She bounded over. Her body, with the
gravity-pull of only a few Earth-pounds, sailed in an arc and dropped to
the sward near the swaying line of men.

Miko swung back. "Get out of my way!" A sweep of his huge arm knocked
Anita sidewise. "Prince, damn you, help me with those boxes!"

The frightened stewards were lifting the boxes, square metal
storage-chests each as long as a man, packed with food, tools, and
equipment.

"Here, get out of my way, all of you!"

My breath came again; Anita nimbly retreated before Miko's angry rush.
He dashed at the stewards. Three of them held a box. He took it from
them; raised it at the top of the incline. Poised it over his head an
instant, with his massive arms like gray pillars beneath it. And flung
it. The box catapulted, dropped; and then, passing the Planetara's
gravity area, it sailed in a long flat arc over the forest glade and
crashed into the purple underbrush.

"Give me another!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The stewards pushed another at him. Like an angry Titan, he flung it.
And another. One by one the chests sailed out and crashed.

"There is your food--go pick it up! Haljan, make ready to ring us away!"

On the deck lay the dead body of Rance Rankin, which the stewards had
carried out. Miko seized it, flung it.

"There! Go to your last resting place!"

And the other bodies. Balch Blackstone, Captain Carter, Johnson--Miko
flung them. And the course masters and those of our crew who had been
killed; the stewards appeared with them; Miko unceremoniously cast them
off.

The passengers were all on the ground now. It was dim down there. I
tried to distinguish Venza, but could not. I could see Dr. Frank's
figure at the end of the chained line of men. The passengers were gazing
in horror at the bodies hurtling over them.

"Ready, Haljan?"

Moa prompted me. "Tell him yes!"

I called, "Yes!" Had Venza failed in her unknown purpose? It seemed so.
On the helio-room bridge Snap and his guard stood like silent statues in
the blue-lit gloom.

The disembarkation was over.

"Close the ports," Miko commanded.

The incline came folding up with a clatter. The port and dome-windows
slid closed. Moa hissed against my ear:

"If you want life, Gregg Haljan, you will start your duties!"

Venza had failed. Whatever it was, it had come to nothing. Down in the
purple forest, disconnected now from the ship, the last of our friends
stood marooned. I could distinguish them through the blur of the closed
dome--only a swaying, huddled group was visible. But my fancy pictured
this last sight of them--Dr. Frank, Venza, Shac and Dud Ardley.

They were gone. There were left only Snap, Anita, and myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was mechanically ringing us away. I heard my sirens sounding down
below, with the answering clangs here in the turret. The _Planetara's_
respiratory controls started; the pressure equalizers began operating,
and the gravity plates shifted into lifting combinations.

The ship was hissing and quivering with it, combined with the grating of
the last of the dome ports. And Miko's command:

"Lift, Haljan."

Hahn had been mingled with the confusion of the deck, though I had
hardly noticed him; Coniston had remained below, with the crew answering
my signals. Hahn stood now with Miko, gazing down through a deck window.
Anita was alone at another.

"Lift, Haljan."

I lifted us gently, bow first, with a repulsion of the bow plates. And
started the central electronic engine. Its thrust from our stern moved
us diagonally over the purple forest trees.

The glade slid downward and away. I caught a last vague glimpse of the
huddled group of marooned passengers, staring up at us. Left to their
fate, alone on this deserted little world.

With the three engines going we slid smoothly upward. The forest
dropped, a purple spread of tree-tops, edged with starlight and
Earth-light. The sharply curving horizon seemed following us up. I swung
on all the power. We mounted at a forty degree angle, slowly circling,
with a bank of clouds over us to the side and the shining little sea
beneath.

"Very good, Gregg." In the turret light Moa's eyes blazed at me. "I do
not know what you meant by darkening the deck-lights." Her fingers dug
at my shoulders. "I will tell my brother it was an error."

I said, "An error--yes."

"An error? I don't know what it was. But you have me to deal with now.
You understand? I will tell my brother so. You said, 'On Earth a man may
kill the thing he loves.' A woman of Mars may do that! Beware of me,
Gregg Haljan."

Her passion-filled eyes bored into me. Love? Hate? The venom of a woman
scorned--a mingling of turgid emotions....

       *       *       *       *       *

I twisted away from her grip and ignored her; she sat back, silently
watching my busy activities; the calculations of the shifting conditions
of gravity, pressures, temperatures; a checking of the score or more of
instruments on the board before me.

Mechanical routine. My mind went to Venza, back there on the asteroid.
The wandering little world was already shrinking to a convex surface
beneath us. Venza, with her last unknown play, gone to failure. Had I
failed my cue? Whatever my part, it seemed now that I must have horribly
mis-acted it.

The crescent Earth was presently swinging over our bow. We rocketed out
of the asteroid's shadow. The glowing, flaming Sun appeared, making a
crescent of the Earth. With the glass I could see our tiny Moon,
visually seeming to hug the limb of its parent Earth.

We were away upon our course for the Moon. My mind flung ahead.
Grantline with his treasure, unsuspecting this brigand ship. And
suddenly, beyond all thought of Grantline and his treasure, there came
to me a fear for Anita. In God's truth I had been, so far, a very
stumbling inept champion--doomed to failure with everything I tried. It
swept me, so that I cursed my own incapacity. Why had I not contrived to
have Anita desert at the asteroid? Would it not have been far better for
her there? Taking her chance for rescue with Dr. Frank, Venza and the
others?

But no! I had, like an inept fool, never thought of that! Had left her
here on board at the mercy of these outlaws.

And I swore now that, beyond everything, I would protect her.

Futile oath! If I could have seen ahead a few hours! But I sensed the
catastrophe. There was a shudder within me as I sat in that turret,
docilely guiding us out through the asteroid's atmosphere, heading us
upon our course for the Moon.




CHAPTER XIX

_In the Zed-light Glow_


"Try again. By the infernal, Snap Dean, if you do anything to balk us!"

Miko scanned the apparatus with keen eyes. How much technical knowledge
of signaling instruments did this brigand leader have? I was tense and
cold with apprehension as I sat in a corner of the helio-room, watching
Snap. Could Miko be fooled? Snap, I knew, was trying to fool him.

The Moon spread close beneath us. My log-chart, computed up to thirty
minutes past, showed us barely some thirty thousand miles over the
Moon's surface. The globe lay in quadrature beneath our bow quarter--a
huge quadrant spreading across the black starry vault of the lower
heavens. A silver quadrant. The sunset caught the Lunar mountains, flung
slanting shadows over the empty Lunar plains. All the disc was plainly
visible. The mellow Earth-light glowed serene and pale to illumine the
Lunar night.

The _Planetara_ was bathed in silver. A brilliant silver glare swept the
forward deck, clean white and splashed with black shadows. We had partly
circled the Moon, so as now to approach it from the Earthward side. I
had worked with extreme concentration through the last few hours,
plotting the trajectory of our curving sweep, setting the gravity plates
with constantly shifting combinations. And with it a necessity for the
steady retarding of our velocity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miko for a time was at my elbow in the turret. I had not seen Coniston
and Hahn of recent hours. I had slept, awakened refreshed, and had a
meal. Coniston and Hahn remained below, one or the other of them always
with the crew to execute my sirened orders. Then Coniston came to take
my place in the turret, and I went with Miko to the helio-room.

"You are skilful, Haljan." A measure of grim approval was in Miko's
voice. "You evidently have no wish to try and fool me in this
navigation."

I had not, indeed. It is delicate work at best, coping with the
intricacies of celestial mechanics upon a semicircular trajectory with
retarding velocity, and with a make-shift crew we could easily have
come upon real difficulty.

We hung at last, hull-down, facing the Earthward hemisphere of the Lunar
disc. The giant ball of the Earth lay behind and above us--the Sun over
our stern quarter. With forward velocity almost checked, we poised, and
Snap began his signals to the unsuspecting Grantline.

My work momentarily was over. I sat watching the helio-room. Moa was
here, close beside me; I felt always her watchful gaze, so that even the
play of my expression needed reining.

Miko worked with Snap. Anita too was here. To Miko and Moa it was the
somber, taciturn George Prince, shrouded always in his black mourning
cloak, disinclined to talk; sitting alone, brooding and cowardly sullen.

Miko repeated, "By the infernal, if you try to fool me, Snap Dean!"

The small metal room, with its grid floor and low-arched ceiling, glared
with moonlight through its windows. The moving figures of Snap and Miko
were aped by the grotesque, misshapen shadows of them on the walls. Miko
gigantic--a great, menacing ogre. Snap small and alert--a trim, pale
figure in his tight-fitting white trousers, broad-flowing belt, and
white shirt open at the throat. His face was pale and drawn from lack of
sleep and the torture to which Miko had subjected him. But he grinned at
the brigand's words, and pushed his straggling hair closer under the red
eyeshade.

"I'm doing my best, Miko--you can believe it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The room over long periods was deadly silent, with Miko and Snap bending
watchfully at the crowded banks of instruments. A silence in which my
own pounding heart seemed to echo. I did not dare look at Anita, nor she
at me. Snap was trying to signal Earth, not the Moon! His main helios
were set in the reverse. The infra-red waves, flung from the bow
window, were of a frequency which Snap and I believed that Grantline
could not pick up. And over against the wall, close beside me and
seemingly ignored by Snap, there was a tiny ultra-violet sender. Its
faint hum and the quivering of its mirrors had so far passed unnoticed.

Would some Earth-station pick it up? I prayed so. There was a thumb nail
mirror here which could bring an answer. I prayed that it might swing.

Would some Earth telescope be able to see us? I doubted it. The pinpoint
of the _Planetara's_ infinitesimal bulk would be beyond them.

Long silences, broken only by the faint hiss and murmur of Snap's
instruments.

"Shall I try the 'graphs, Miko?"

"Yes."

I helped him with the spectroheliograph. At every level the plates
showed us nothing save the scarred and pitted Moon-surface. We worked
for an hour. There was nothing. Bleak cold night on the Moon here
beneath us. A touch of fading sunlight upon the Apennines. Up near the
South Pole, Tycho with its radiating open rills stood like a grim dark
maw.

Miko bent over a plate. "Something here? Is there?"

An abnormality upon the frowning ragged cliffs of Tycho? We thought so.
But then it seemed not.

       *       *       *       *       *

Another hour. No signal came from Earth. If Snap's calls were getting
through we had no evidence of it. Abruptly Miko strode at me from across
the room. I went cold and tense; Moa shifted, alert to my every
movement. But Miko was not interested in me. A sweep of his clenched
fist knocked the ultra-violet sender and its coils and mirrors in a
tinkling crash to the grid at my feet.

"We don't need that, whatever it is!"

He rubbed his knuckles where the violet waves had tinged them, and
turned grimly back to Snap.

"Where are your Gamma ray mirrors? If the treasure is exposed--"

This Martian's knowledge was far greater than we believed. He grinned
sardonically at Anita. "If our treasure is on this hemisphere, Prince,
we should pick up Gamma rays? Don't you think so? Or is Grantline so
cautious it will all be protected?"

Anita spoke in a careful, throaty drawl. "The Gamma rays came plain
enough when we passed here on the way out."

"You should know," grinned Miko. "An expert eavesdropper, Prince--I will
say that for you. Come Dean, try something else. By God, if Grantline
does not signal us, I will be likely to blame you--my patience is
shortening. Shall we go closer, Haljan?"

"I don't think it would help," I said.

He nodded. "Perhaps not. Are we checked?"

"Yes." We were poised, very nearly motionless. "If you wish an advance,
I can ring it. But we need a surface destination now."

"True, Haljan." He stood thinking. "Would a zed-ray penetrate those
crater-cliffs? Tycho, for instance, at this angle?"[B]

"It might," Snap agreed. "You think he may be on the Northern inner side
of Tycho?"

"He may be anywhere," said Miko shortly.

"If you think that," Snap persisted, "suppose we swing the _Planetara_
over the South Pole. Tycho, viewed from there--"

"And take another quarter-day of time?" Miko sneered. "Flash on your
zed-ray; help him hook it up, Haljan."


  [B] An allusion to the use of the zed-ray light for making
  spectro-photographs of what might be behind obscuring rock masses,
  similar to the old-style X-ray.

       *       *       *       *       *

I moved to the lens-box of the spectroheliograph. It seemed that Snap
was very strangely reluctant: Was it because he knew that the Grantline
camp lay concealed on the north inner wall of Tycho's giant ring? I
thought so. But Snap flashed a queer look at Anita. She did not see it,
but I did. And I could not understand it.

My accursed, witless incapacity! If only I had taken warning!

"Here," commanded Miko. "A score of 'graphs with the zed-ray. I tell you
I will comb this surface if we have to stay here until our ship comes
from Ferrok-Shahn to join us!"

The Martian brigands were coming. Miko's signals had been answered. In
ten days the other brigand ship, adequately manned and armed, would be
here.

Snap helped me connect the zed-ray. He did not dare even to whisper to
me, with Moa hovering always so close. And for all Miko's sardonic
smiling, we knew that he would tolerate nothing from us now. He was
fully armed, and so was Moa.

I recall that Snap several times tried to touch me significantly. Oh, if
only I had taken warning!

We finished our connecting. The dull gray point of zed-ray gleamed
through the prisms, to mingle with the moonlight entering the main lens.
I stood with the shutter trip.

"The same interval, Snap?"

"Yes."

Beside me, I was aware of a faint reflection of the zed-light--a gray
Cathedral shaft crossing the helio-room and falling upon the opposite
wall. An unreality there, as the zed-light faintly strove to penetrate
the metal room-side.

I said, "Shall I make the exposure?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Snap nodded. But that 'graph was never made. An exclamation from Moa
made us all turn. The Gamma mirrors were quivering! Grantline had picked
our signals! With what undoubtedly was an intensified receiving
equipment which Snap had not thought Grantline able to use, he had
caught our faint zed-rays, which Snap was sending only to deceive Miko.
And Grantline had recognized the _Planetara_, and had released his
occulting screens surrounding the radium ore. The Gamma rays were here,
unmistakable!

And upon their heels came Grantline's message. Not in the secret system
he had arranged with Snap, but unsuspectingly in open code. I could read
the swinging mirror, and so could Miko.

And Miko decoded it triumphantly aloud:

"_Surprised but pleased your return. Approach Mid-Northern hemisphere,
region of Archimedes, forty thousand toises[C] off nearest Apennine
range._"

The message broke off. But even its importance was overshadowed. Miko
stood in the center of the helio-room, triumphantly reading the
light-indicator. Its beam swung on the scale, which chanced to be almost
directly over Anita's head. I saw Miko's expression change. A look of
surprise, amazement came to him.

"Why--"

He gasped. He stood staring. Almost stupidly staring for an instant. And
as I regarded him with fascinated horror, there came upon his heavy gray
face a look of dawning comprehension. And I heard Snap's startled intake
of breath. He moved to the spectroheliograph, where the zed-ray
connections were still humming.

But with a leap Miko flung him away. "Off with you! Moa, watch him!
Haljan, don't move!"


  [C] About fifty miles.

       *       *       *       *       *

Again Miko stood staring. Oh dear God, I saw now that he was staring at
Anita!

"Why George Prince! How strange you look!"

Anita did not move. She was stricken with horror: she shrank back
against the wall, huddled in her cloak. Miko's sardonic voice came
again:

"How strange you look. Prince!" He took a step forward. He was grim and
calm. Horribly calm. Deliberate. Gloating--like a great gray monster in
human form toying with a fascinated, imprisoned bird.

"Move just a little Prince. Let the zed-ray light fall more fully."

Anita's head was bare. That pale, Hamletlike face. Dear God, the
zed-light reflection lay gray and penetrating upon it!

Miko took another step. Peering. Grinning. "How amazing, George Prince!
Why, I can hardly believe it!"

Moa was armed with an electronic cylinder. For all her amazement--what
turgid emotions sweeping her I can only guess--she never took her eyes
from Snap and me.

"Back! Don't move, either of you!" She hissed it at us.

Then Miko leaped at Anita like giant gray leopard pouncing.

"Away with that cloak, Prince!"

       *       *       *       *       *

I stood cold and numbed. And realization came at last. The faint
zed-light glow had fallen by chance upon Anita's face. Penetrated the
flesh; exposed, faintly glowing, the bone-line of her jaw. Unmasked the
waxen art of Glutz.

And Miko had seen it.

"Why George, how surprising! Away with that cloak!"

He seized her wrist, drew her forward, beyond the shaft of zed-light,
into the brilliant light of the Moon. And ripped her cloak from her. The
gentle curves of her woman's figure were so unmistakable!

And as Miko gazed at them, all his calm triumph swept away.

"Why, Anita!"

I heard Moa mutter: "So that is it?" A venomous flashing look--a shaft
from me to Anita and back again. "So that is it?"

"Why, _Anita_!"

Miko's great arms gathered her up as though she were a child. "So I have
you back; from the dead delivered back to me!"

"Gregg!" Snap's warning, and his grip over my shoulders brought me a
measure of sanity. I had tensed to spring. I stood quivering, and Moa
thrust her weapon against my face. The helio mirrors were swaying again
with another message from Grantline. But it came ignored by us all.

In the glare of moonlight by the forward window, Miko held Anita, his
great hands pawing her with triumphant possessive caresses.

"So, little Anita, you are given back to me."

Against her futile struggles he held her.

Dear God, if only I had had the wit to have prevented this!




CHAPTER XX

_The Grantline Camp_


In the mid-northern hemisphere upon the Earthward side of the Moon, the
giant crater of Archimedes stood brooding in silent majesty. Grim, lofty
walls, broken, pitted and scarred, rising precipitous to the upper
circular rim. Night had just fallen. The sunlight clung to the
crater-heights; it tinged with flame the jagged peaks of the Apennine
Mountains which rose in tiers at the horizon; and it flung great inky
shadows over the intervening lowlands.

Northward, the Mare Imbrium stretched mysterious and purple, its million
rills and ridges and crater holes flattened by distance and the
gathering darkness into a seeming level surface. The night slowly
deepened. The dead-black vault of the sky blazed with its brilliant
starry gems. The gibbous Earth hung high above the horizon, motionless,
save for the invisible pendulum sway over the tiny arc, of its
libration: widening to quadrature, casting upon the bleak naked Lunar
landscape its mellow Earth-glow.

Slow, measured process, this coming of the Lunar night! For an Earth-day
the sunset slowly faded on the Apennines; the poised Earth widened a
little further--an Earth-day of time, with the Earth-disc visibly
rotating, the faint tracery of its oceans and continents passing in
slow, majestic review.

Another Earth-day interval. Then another. And another. Full night now
enveloped Archimedes. Splotches of Earth-light and starlight sheen
slowly shifted as the night advanced.

Between the great crater and the nearby mountains, the broken,
pseudo-level lowlands lay wan in the Earth-light. A few hundred miles,
as distance would be measured upon Earth. A million million rills were
here. Valleys and ridges, ravines, sharp-walled canyons, cliffs and
crags--tiny craters like pock-marks.

Naked, gray porous rock everywhere. This denuded landscape! Cracked and
scarred and tumbled, as though some inexorable Titan torch had seared
and crumbled and broken it, left it now congealed like a wind-lashed sea
abruptly frozen into immobility.

       *       *       *       *       *

Moonlight upon Earth so gently shines to make romantic a lover's smile!
But the reality of the Lunar night is cold beyond human rationality.
Cold and darkly silent. Grim desolation. Awesome. Majestic. A frowning
majesty that even to the most intrepid human beholder is inconceivably
forbidding.

And there were humans here now. On this tumbled plain, between
Archimedes and the mountains, one small crater amid the million of its
fellows was distinguished this night by the presence of humans. The
Grantline camp! It huddled in the deepest purple shadows on the side of
a bowl-like pit, a crudely circular orifice with a scant two miles
across its rippling rim. There was faint light here to mark the presence
of the living intruders. The blue-glow radiance of Morrell tube-lights
under a spread of glassite.

The Grantline camp stood mid-way up one of the inner cliff-walls of the
little crater. The broken, rock-strewn floor, two miles wide, lay five
hundred feet below the camp. Behind it, the jagged precipitous cliff
rose another five hundred to the heights of the upper rim. A broad
level shelf hung midway up the cliff, and upon it Grantline had built
his little group of glassite dome shelters. Viewed from above there was
the darkly purple crater floor, the upflung circular rim where the
Earth-light tinged the spires and crags with yellow sheen; and on the
shelf, like a huddled group of birds nests, Grantline's domes clung and
gazed down upon the inner valley.

Intricate task, the building of these glassite shelters! There were
three. The main one stood close at the brink of the ledge. A quadrangle
of glassite walls, a hundred feet in length by half as wide, and a scant
ten feet high to its flat-arched dome roof. Built for this purpose in
Great-New York, Grantline had brought his aluminite girders and braces
and the glassite panels in sections.

       *       *       *       *       *

The air here on the Moon surface was negligible--a scant one
five-thousandth of the atmospheric pressure at the sea-level on Earth.
But within the glassite shelter, a normal Earth-pressure must be
maintained. Rigidly braced double walls to withstand the explosive
tendency, with no external pressure to counteract it. A tremendous
necessity for mechanical equipment had burdened Grantline's small
ship to its capacity. The chemistry of manufactured air, the
pressure equalizers, renewers, respirators, the lighting and
temperature-maintenance systems--all the mechanics of a space-flyer were
here.

And within the glassite double walls, there was necessity for a constant
circulation of the Erentz temperature insulating system.[D]

There was this main Grantline building, stretching low and rectangular
along the front edge of the ledge. Within it were living rooms, messroom
and kitchen. Fifty feet behind it, connected by a narrow passage of
glassite, was a similar, though smaller structure. The mechanical
control rooms, with their humming, vibrating mechanisms were here. And
an instrument room with signaling apparatus, senders, receivers,
mirror-grids and audiphones of several varieties; and an
electro-telescope, small but modern, with dome overhead like a little
Earth observatory.

From this instrument building, beside the connecting pedestrian passage,
wire cables for light, and air-tubes and strings and bundles of
instrument wires ran to the main structure--gray snakes upon the
porous, gray Lunar rock.

The third building seemed a lean-to banked against the cliff-wall, a
slanting shed-wall of glassite fifty feet high and two hundred in
length. Under it, for months Grantline's borers had dug into the cliff.
Braced tunnels were here, penetrating back and downward into this vein
of radio-active rock.


  [D] An intricate system of insulation against extremes of temperature,
  developed by the Erentz Kinetic Energy Corporation in the twenty-first
  century. Within the hollow double shell of a shelter-wall, or an
  explorer's helmet-suit, or a space-flyer's hull, an oscillating
  semi-vacuum current was maintained--an extremely rarified air,
  magnetically charged, and maintained in rapid oscillating motion. Across
  this field the outer cold, or heat, as the case might be, could
  penetrate only with slow radiation. This Erentz system gave the most
  perfect temperature insulation known in its day. Without it,
  interplanetary flight would have been impossible.

  And it served a double purpose. Developed at first for temperature
  insulation only, the Erentz system surprisingly brought to light one of
  the most important discoveries made in the realm of physics of the
  century. It was found that any flashing, oscillating current, whether
  electronic, or the semi-vacuum of rarified air--or even a thin sheet of
  whirling fluid--gave also a pressure-insulation. The kinetic energy of
  the rapid movement was found to absorb within itself the latent energy
  of the unequal pressure.

  (The intricate postulates and mathematical formulae necessary to
  demonstrate the operation of the physical laws involved would be out of
  place here.)

  The _Planetara_ was so equipped, against the explosive tendency of its
  inner air-pressures when flying in the near-vacuum of space. In the case
  of Grantline's glassite shelters, the latent energy of his room interior
  air pressure went largely into a kinetic energy which in practical
  effect resulted only in the slight acceleration of the vacuum current,
  and thus never reached the outer wall. The Erentz engineers claimed for
  their system a pressure absorption of 97.4%, leaving, in Grantline's
  case, only 2.6% of room pressure to be held by the building's aluminite
  bracers.

  It may be interesting to note in this connection that without the Erentz
  system as a basis, the great sub-sea developments on Earth and Mars of
  the twenty-first century would also have been impossible. Equipped with
  a fluid circulation device of the Erentz principle within its double
  hull, the first submarine was able to penetrate the great ocean deeps,
  withstanding the tremendous ocean pressures at depths of four thousand
  fathoms.

       *       *       *       *       *

The work was over now. The borers had been dismantled and packed away.
At one end of the cliff the mining equipment lay piled in a litter.
There was a heap of discarded ore where Grantline had carted and dumped
it after his first crude refining process had yielded it as waste. The
ore-slag lay like gray powder-flakes strewn down the cliff. Tracks and
ore-carts along the ledge stood discarded, mute evidence of the weeks
and months of work these helmeted miners had undergone, struggling upon
this airless, frowning world.

But now all that was finished. The radio-active ore was sufficiently
concentrated. It lay--this treasure--in a seventy-foot pile behind the
glassite lean-to, with a cage of wires over it and an insulation barrage
guarding its Gamma rays from escaping to mark its presence.

The ore-shelter was dark; the other two buildings were lighted. And
there were small lights mounted at intervals about the camp and along
the edge of the ledge. A spider ladder, with tiny platforms some twenty
feet one above the other, hung precariously to the cliff-face. It
descended the five hundred feet to the crater floor; and, behind the
camp, it mounted the jagged cliff-face to the upper rim-height, where a
small observatory platform was placed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such was the outer aspect of the Grantline Treasure Camp near the
beginning of this Lunar night, when, unbeknown to Grantline and his
score of men, the _Planetara_ with its brigands was approaching. The
night was perhaps a sixth advanced. Full night. No breath of cloud to
mar the brilliant starry heavens. The quadrant Earth hung poised like a
giant mellow moon over Grantline's crater. A bright Earth, yet no air
was here on this Lunar surface to spread its light. Only a glow,
mingling with the spots of blue tube-light on the poles along the cliff,
and the radiance from the lighted buildings.

The crater floor was dimly purple. Beyond the opposite upper rim, from
the camp-height, the towering top of distant Archimedes was visible.

No evidence of movement showed about the silent camp. Then a pressure
door in an end of the main building opened its tiny series of locks. A
bent figure came out. The lock closed. The figure straightened and gazed
about the camp. Grotesque, bloated semblance of a man! Helmeted, with
rounded dome-hood suggestion of an ancient sea diver, yet goggled and
trunked like a gas-masked fighter of the twentieth century war.

He stooped presently and disconnected metal weights which were upon his
shoes.[E]

Then he stood erect again, and with giant strides bounded along the
cliff. Fantastic figure in the blue-lit gloom! A child's dream of crags
and rocks and strange lights with a single monstrous figure in
seven-league boots.

He went the length of the ledge with his twenty-foot strides, inspected
the lights, and made adjustments. Came back, and climbed with agile,
bounding leaps up the spider ladder to the dome on the crater top. A
light flashed on up there. Then it was extinguished.

The goggled, bloated figure came leaping down after a moment.
Grantline's exterior watchman making his rounds. He came back to the
main building. Fastened the weights on his shoes. Signaled within.

The lock opened. The figure went inside.

It was early evening, after the dinner hour and before the time of
sleep, according to the camp routine Grantline was maintaining. Nine P.
M. of Earth Eastern-American time, recorded now upon his Earth
chronometer. In the living room of the main building Johnny Grantline
sat with a dozen of his men dispersed about the room, whiling away as
best they could the lonesome hours.


  [E] Within the Grantline buildings it was found more convenient to use a
  gravity normal to Earth. This was maintained by the wearing of
  metal-weighted shoes and metal-loaded belt. The Moon-gravity is normally
  approximately one-sixth the gravity of Earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

"All as usual. This cursed Moon! When I get home--if ever I do get
home--"

"Say your say, Wilks. But you'll spend your share of the gold-leaf and
thank your constellations that you had your chance!"

"Let him alone! Come on, Wilks, take a hand here. This game is no good
with three."

The man who had been outside flung his hissing helmet recklessly to the
floor and unsealed his suit. "Here, get me out of this. No, I won't
play. I can't play your cursed game with nothing at stake!"

"Commissioner's orders."

A laugh went up at the sharp look Johnny Grantline flung from where he
sat reading in a corner of the room.

"Commander's orders. No gambling gold-leafers tolerated here."

"Play the game, Wilks." Grantline said quietly. "We all know it's
infernal doing nothing."

"He's been struck by Earth-light," another man laughed. "Commander, I
told you not to let that guy Wilks out at night."

       *       *       *       *       *

A rough but good-natured lot of men. Jolly and raucous by nature in
their leisure hours. But there was too much leisure here now. Their
mirth had a hollow sound. In older times, explorers of the frozen polar
zones had to cope with inactivity, loneliness and despair. But at least
they were on their native world. The grimness of the Moon was eating
into the courage of Grantline's men. An unreality here. A weirdness.
These fantastic crags. The deadly silence. The nights, almost two weeks
of Earth-time in length, congealed by the deadly frigidity of Space. The
days of black sky, blaring stars and flaming Sun, with no atmosphere to
diffuse the daylight. Days of weird blending sheen of illumination with
most of the Sun's heat radiating so swiftly from the naked Lunar surface
that the outer temperature still was cold. And day and night, always the
familiar beloved Earth-disc hanging poised up near the zenith. From
thinnest crescent to full Earth, and then steadily back again to
crescent.

All so abnormal, irrational, disturbing to human senses. With the mining
work over, an irritability grew upon Grantline's men. And perhaps since
the human mind is so wonderful, elusive a thing, there lay upon these
men an indefinable sense of impending disaster. Johnny Grantline felt
it. He thought about it now as he sat in the room corner watching Wilks
being forced into the plaget-game, and he found it strong within him.
Unreasonable, ominous depression! Barring the accident which had
disabled his little space-ship when they reached this small crater hole,
his expedition had gone well. His instruments, and the information he
had from the former explorers, had picked up the ore-vein with a scant
month of search.

       *       *       *       *       *

The vein had now been exhausted; but the treasure was here. Nothing was
left but to wait for the _Planetara_. The men were talking of that now.

"She ought to be well mid-way from here to Ferrok-Shahn by now. When do
you figure she'll be back here, and signal us?"

"Twenty days. Give her another five now to Mars, and five in port.
That's ten. We'll pick her signals in three weeks, mark me."

"Three weeks! Just give me three weeks of reasonable sunrise and sunset!
This cursed Moon! You mean, Williams, next daylight."

"Hah! He's inventing a Lunar language. You'll be a Moon-man yet, if you
live here long enough."

Olaf Swenson, the big blond fellow from the Scandia fiords, came and
flung himself down by Grantline.

"Ay tank they bane without not enough to do, Commander. If the ore yust
would not give out--"

"Three weeks--it isn't very long, Ollie."

"No. Maybe not."

From across the room somebody was saying, "If the _Comet_ hadn't smashed
on us, damn me but I'd ask the Commander to let some of us take her
back. The discarded equipment could go."

"Shut up, Billy. She is smashed."

The little _Comet_, cruising in search of the ore, had come to grief
just as the ore was found. It lay now on the crater floor with its nose
bashed into an upflung spire of rock. Wrecked beyond repair. Save for
the pre-arrangement with the _Planetara_, the Grantline party would have
been helpless here on the Moon. Knowledge of that--although no one ever
suspected but that the _Planetara_ would come safely--served to add to
the men's depression. They were cut off, virtually helpless on a strange
world. Their signalling devices were inadequate even to reach Earth.
Grantline's power batteries were running low.[F] He could not attempt
wide-flung signals without jeopardizing the power necessary for the
routine of his camp in the event of the _Planetara_ being delayed. Nor
was his electro-telescope adequate to pick small objects at any great
distance.[G]

All of Grantline's effort, in truth, had gone into equipment for the
finding and gathering of the treasure. The safety of the expedition had
to that extent been neglected.

Swenson was mentioning that now.

"You all agreed to it," Johnny said shortly. "Every man here voted that,
above everything, what we wanted was to get the radium."


  [F] The Gravely storage tanks--the power used by the Grantline
  expedition--were heavy and bulky affairs. Economy of space on the Comet
  allowed but few of them.

  [G] Electro-telescopes of most modern use and power were too large and
  used too much power to be available to Grantline.

       *       *       *       *       *

A dynamic little fellow, this Johnny Grantline. Short of temper
sometimes, but always just, and a perfect leader of men. In stature he
was almost as small as Snap. But he was thick-set, with a smooth shaven,
keen-eyed, square-jawed face, and a shock of brown tousled hair. A man
of thirty-five, though the decision of his manner, the quiet dominance
of his voice, mode him seem older. He stood up now, surveying the
blue-lit glassite room with its low ceiling close overhead. He was
bowlegged; in movement he seemed to roll with a stiff-legged gait like
some sea captain of former days on the deck of his swaying ship.
Queer-looking figure! Heavy flannel shirt and trousers, boots heavily
weighted, and bulky metal-loaded belt strapped about his waist.

He grinned at Swenson. "When we divide this treasure, everyone will be
happy, Ollie."

The treasure was estimated by Grantline to be the equivalent of ninety
millions in gold-leaf. A hundred and ten millions in the gross as it now
stood, with twenty millions to be deducted by the Federated Refiners for
reducing it to the standard purity of commercial radium. Ninety
millions, with only a million and a half to come off for expedition
expenses, and the _Planetara_ Company's share another million. A nice
little stake.

Grantline strode across the room with his rolling gait.

"Cheer up, boys. Who's winning there? I say, you fellows--"

An audiphone buzzer interrupted him, a call from the duty man in the
instrument room of the nearby building.

Grantline clicked the receiver. The room fell into silence. Any call was
unusual--nothing ever happened here in the camp.

The duty man's voice sounded over the room.

"Signals coming! Not clear. Will you come over, Commander?"

Signals!

       *       *       *       *       *

It was never Grantline's way to enforce needless discipline. He offered
no objection when every man in the camp rushed through the connecting
passages. They crowded the instrument room where the tense duty man sat
bending over his helio receivers. The mirrors were swaying.

The duty man looked up and met Grantline's gaze.

"I ran it up to the highest intensity. Commander. We ought to get
it--not let it pass."

"Low scale, Peter?"

"Yes. Weakest infra-red. I'm bringing it up, even though it uses too
much of our power." The duty man was apologetic.

"Get it," said Grantline shortly.

"I had a swing a minute ago. I think it's the _Planetara_."

"_Planetara!_" The crowding group of men chorused it. How could it be
the _Planetara_?

But it was. The call presently came in clear. Unmistakably the
_Planetara_, turned back now from her course to Ferrok-Shahn.

"How far away, Peter?"

The duty man consulted the needles of his dial scale. "Close! Very weak
infra-red. But close. Around thirty thousand miles, maybe. It's Snap
Dean calling."

The _Planetara_ here within thirty thousand miles! Excitement and
pleasure swept the room. The _Planetara's_ coming had for so long been
awaited so eagerly!

The excitement communicated to Grantline. It was unlike him to be
incautious; yet now with no thought save that some unforeseen and
pleasing circumstance had brought the _Planetara_ ahead of time;
incautious Grantline certainly was.

"Raise the ore-barrage."

"I'll go! My suit is here."

       *       *       *       *       *

A willing volunteer rushed out to the ore-shed. The Gamma rays, which in
the helio-room of the _Planetara_ came so unwelcome to Snap and me, were
loosed.

"Can you send, Peter?" Grantline demanded.

"Yes, with more power."

"Use it."

Johnny dictated the message of his location which we received. In his
incautious excitement he ignored the secret code.

An interval passed. The ore was occulted again. No message had come from
us--just Snap's routine signal in the weak infra-red, which we hoped
Grantline would not get.

The men crowding Grantline's instrument room waited in tense silence.
Then Grantline tried the telescope. Its current weakened the lights with
the drain upon the distributors, and cooled the room with a sudden
deadly chill as the Erentz insulating system slowed down.

The duty man looked suddenly frightened. "You'll bulge out our walls,
Commander. The internal pressure--"

"We'll chance it."

They picked up the image of the _Planetara_! It came from the telescope
and shone clear on the grid--the segment of star-field with a tiny,
cigar-shaped blob. Clear enough to be unmistakable. The _Planetara_!
Here now over the Moon, almost directly overhead, poised at what the
altimeter scale showed to be a fraction under thirty thousand miles.

The men gazed in awed silence. The _Planetara_ coming....

But the altimeter needle was motionless. The _Planetara_ was hanging
poised.

A sudden gasp went about the room. The men stood with whitening faces,
gazing at the _Planetara's_ image. And at the altimeter needle. It was
moving. The _Planetara_ was descending. But not with an orderly swoop.

The image showed the ship clearly. The bow tilted up, then dipped down.
But then in a moment it swung up again. The ship turned partly over.
Righted itself. Then swayed again, drunkenly.

The watching men were stricken into horrified silence. The _Planetara's_
image momentarily, horribly, grew larger. Swaying. Then turning
completely over, rotating slowly end over end.

The _Planetara_, out of control, was falling!




CHAPTER XXI

_The Wreck of the_ Planetara


On the _Planetara_, in the helio-room, Snap and I stood with Moa's
weapon upon us. Miko held Anita. Triumphant. Possessive. Then as she
struggled, a gentleness came to this strange Martian giant. Perhaps he
really loved her. Looking back on it, I sometimes think so.

"Anita, do not fear me." He held her away from him. "I would not harm
you. I want your love." Irony came to him. "And I thought I had killed
you! But it was only your brother."

He partly turned. I was aware of how alert was his attention. He
grinned. "Hold them, Moa--don't let them do anything foolish. So, Anita,
you were masquerading to spy upon me? That was wrong of you." He was
again ironic.

Anita had not spoken. She held herself tensely away from Miko; she had
flashed me a look--just one. What horrible mischance to have brought
this catastrophe!

The completion of Grantline's message had come unnoticed by us all.

"Look! Grantline again!" Snap said abruptly.

But the mirrors were steadying. We had no recording-tape apparatus; the
rest of the message was lost. The mirrors pulsed and then steadied.

No further message came. There was an interval while Miko waited. He
held Anita in the hollow of his great arm.

"Quiet, little bird. Do not fear me. I have work to do, Anita--this is
our great adventure. We will be rich, you and I. All the luxuries three
worlds can offer, all for us when this is over. Careful, Moa! This
Haljan has no wit."

Well could he say it! I, who had been so witless to let this come upon
us! Moa's weapon prodded me. Her voice hissed at me with all the venom
of a reptile enraged. "So that was your game, Gregg Haljan! And I was so
graceless to admit love for you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Snap murmured in my ear, "Don't move, Gregg! She's reckless."

She heard it. She whirled on him. "We have lost George Prince, it seems.
Well, we will survive without his ore knowledge. And you, Dean--and this
Haljan--mark me, I will kill you both if you cause trouble!"

Miko was gloating. "Don't kill them yet, Moa. What was it Grantline
said? Near the crater of Archimedes? Ring us down, Haljan! We'll land."

He signaled the turret. Gave Coniston the Grantline message, and
audiphoned it below to Hahn. The news spread about the ship. The bandits
were jubilant.

"We'll land now, Haljan. Ring us down. Come, Anita and I will go with
you to the turret."

I found my voice. "To what destination?"

"Near Archimedes. The Apennine side. Keep well away from the Grantline
camp. We will probably sight it as we descend."

There was no trajectory needed. We were almost over Archimedes now. I
could drop us with a visible, instrumental course. My mind was whirling
with a confusion of thoughts. What could we do? What could we dare
attempt to do? I met Snap's gaze.

"Ring us down, Gregg," he said quietly.

I nodded. I pushed Moa's weapon away. "You don't need that. I obey
orders."

       *       *       *       *       *

We went to the turret. Moa watched me and Snap, a grim, cold Amazon. She
avoided looking at Anita, whom Miko helped down the ladders with a
strange mixture of courtierlike grace and amused irony. Coniston gazed
at Anita with falling jaw.

"I say! Not George Prince? The girl--"

"No time for argument now," Miko commanded. "It's the girl, masquerading
as her brother. Get below, Coniston. Haljan takes us down."

The astounded Englishman continued gazing at Anita. "I mean to say,
where to on the Moon? Not to encounter Grantline at once, Miko? Our
equipment is not ready."

"Of course not. We will land well away. He won't be suspicious--we can
signal him again after we land. We will have time to plan, to assemble
the equipment. Get below, I told you."

The reluctant Coniston left us. I took the controls. Miko, still holding
Anita as though she were a child, sat beside me. "We will watch him,
little Anita. A skilled fellow at this sort of work."

I rang my signals for the shifting of the gravity plates. The answer
should have come from below within a second or two. But it did not. Miko
regarded me with his great bushy eyebrows upraised.

"Ring again, Haljan."

I duplicated. No answer. The silence was frightening. Ominous.

Miko muttered, "That accursed Hahn. Ring again!"

I sent the imperative emergency demand.

       *       *       *       *       *

No answer. A second or two. Then all of us in the turret were startled.
Transfixed. From below came a sudden hiss. It sounded in the turret: it
came from shifting-room call-grid. The hissing of the pneumatic valves
of the plate-shifters in the lower control room. The valves were
opening; the plates automatically shifting into neutral, and
disconnecting!

An instant of startled silence. Miko may have realized the significance
of what had happened. Certainly Snap and I did. The hissing ceased. I
gripped the emergency plate-shifter switch which hung over my head. Its
disc was dead! The plates were dead in neutral. In the positions they
were only placed while in port! And their shifting mechanisms were
imperative!

I was on my feet. "Snap! Good God, we're in neutral!"

Miko, if he had not realized it before, was aware if it now. The
Moon-disc moved visibly as the _Planetara_ lurched. The vault of the
heavens was slowly swinging.

Miko ripped out a heavy oath. "Haljan! What is this?"

He stood up, still holding Anita. But there was nothing that he could do
in this emergency. "Haljan--what--"

The heavens turned with a giant swoop. The Moon was over us. It swung in
dizzying arc. Overhead, then back past our stern; under us, then
appearing over our bow.

The _Planetara_ had turned over. Upending. Rotating, end over end.

For a moment or two I think all of us in that turret stood and clung.
The Moon-disc, the Earth, Sun and all the stars were swinging past our
windows. So horribly dizzying. The _Planetara_ seemed lurching and
tumbling. But it was an optical effect only. I stared with grim
determination at my feet. The turret seemed to steady.

Then I looked again. That horrible swoop of all the heavens! And the
Moon, as it went past, seemed expanded. We were falling! Out of control,
with the Moon-gravity pulling us inexorably down!

"That accursed Hahn--" Miko, stricken with his lack of knowledge of
these controls, was wholly confused.

       *       *       *       *       *

A moment only had passed. My fancy that the Moon-disc was enlarged was
merely the horror of my imagination. We had not fallen far enough yet
for that.

But we were falling. Unless I could do something, we would crash upon
the Lunar surface.

Anita, killed in this _Planetara_ turret. The end of everything for us.

Action came to me. I gasped, "Miko, you stay here! The controls are
dead! You stay here--hold Anita."

I ignored Moa's weapon which she was still clutching mechanically. Snap
thrust her away.

"Sit back! Let us alone! We're falling! Don't you understand?"

This deadly danger, to level us all! No longer were we captors and
captured. Not brigands for this moment. No thought of Grantline's
treasure! Trapped humans only! Leveled by the common, instinct of
self-preservation. Trapped here together, fighting for our lives.

Miko gasped. "Can you--check us? What happened?"

"I don't know. I'll try."

I stood clinging. This dizzying whirl! From the audiphone grid
Coniston's voice sounded.

"I say, Haljan, something's wrong! Hahn doesn't signal."

The look-out in the forward tower was clinging to his window. On the
deck below our turret a member of the crew appeared, stood lurching for
a moment, then shouted, and turned and ran, swaying, aimless. From the
lower hull-corridors our grids sounded with the tramping of running
steps. Panic among the crew was spreading over the ship. A chaos below
decks.

       *       *       *       *       *

I pulled at the emergency switch again. Dead....

But down below there was the manual controls.

"Snap, we must get down. The signals."

"Yes."

Coniston's voice came like a scream from the grid. "Hahn is dead--the
controls are broken! Hahn is dead!"

We barely heard him. I shouted, "Miko--hold Anita! Come on, Snap!"

We clung to the ladders. Snap was behind me. "Careful, Gregg! Good God!"

This dizzying whirl. I tried not to look. The deck under me was now a
blurred kaleidoscope of swinging patches of moonlight and shadow.

We reached the deck. Ran, swaying, lurching.

It seemed that from the turret Anita's voice followed us. "Be careful!"

Within the ship our senses steadied. With the rotating, reeling, heavens
shut out, there were only the shouts and tramping steps of the
panic-stricken crew to mark that anything was amiss. That, and a
pseudo-sensation of lurching caused by the pulsing of gravity--a pull
when the Moon was beneath our hull to combine its force with our
magnetizers; a lightening when it was overhead. A throbbing, pendulum
lurch--that was all.

We ran down to the corridor incline. A white-faced member of the crew,
came running up.

"What's happened? Haljan, what's happened?"

"We're falling!" I gripped him. "Get below. Come on with us!"

But he jerked away from me. "Falling?"

A steward came running. "Falling? My God!"

Snap swung at them. "Get ahead of us! The manual controls--our only
chance--we need all you men at the compressor pumps!"

But it was an instinct to try and get on deck, as though here below we
were rats caught in a trap. The men tore away from me and ran. Their
shouts of panic resounded through the dim, blue-lit corridors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coniston came lurching from the control room. "I say--falling! Haljan,
my God, look at him!"

Hahn was sprawled at the gravity-plate switchboard. Sprawled,
head-down. Dead. Killed by something? Or a suicide?

I bent over him. His hands gripped the main switch. He had ripped it
loose. And his left hand had reached and broken the fragile line of
tubes that intensified the current of the pneumatic plate-shifters. A
suicide? With his last frenzy determined to kill us all?

Then I saw that Hahn had been killed! Not a suicide! In his hand he
gripped a small segment of black fabric, a piece torn from an invisible
cloak? Was it?

The questions were swept away by the necessity for action. Snap was
rigging the hand-compressors. If he could get the pressure back in the
tanks....

I swung on Coniston. "You armed?"

"Yes." He was white-faced and confused, but not in a panic. He showed me
his heat-ray cylinder. "What do you want me to do?"

"Round up the crew. Get all you can. Bring them here to man these
pumps."

He dashed away. Snap shouted after him. "Kill them down if they argue!"

Miko's voice sounded from the turret call grid: "Falling! Haljan, you
can see it now! Check us!"

I did not answer that. I pumped with Snap.

Desperate moments. Or was it an hour? Coniston brought the men. He stood
over them with menacing weapon.

We had all the pumps going. The pressure rose a little in the tanks.
Enough to shift a bow-plate. I tried it. The plate slowly clicked into a
new combination. A gravity repulsion just in the bow-tip.

       *       *       *       *       *

I signaled Miko. "Have we stopped swinging?"

"No. But slower."

I could feel it, that lurch of the gravity. But not steady now. A limp.
The tendency of our bow was to stay up.

"More pressure, Snap."

"Yes."

One of the crew rebelled, tried to bolt from the room. "God, we'll
crash, caught in here!"

Coniston shot him down.

I shifted another bow-plate. Then two in the stern. The stern-plates
seemed to move more readily than the others.

"Run all the stern-plates," Snap advised.

I tried it. The lurching stopped. Miko called. "We're bow down.
Falling!"

But not falling free. The Moon-gravity pull upon us was more than half
neutralized.

"I'll go up, Snap, and try the engines. You don't mind staying down?
Executing my signals?"

"You idiot!" He gripped my shoulders. His eyes were gleaming, his face
haggard, but his pale lips twitched with a smile.

"Maybe it's good-by, Gregg. We'll fall--fighting."

"Yes. Fighting. Coniston, you keep the pressure up."

With the broken set-tubes it took nearly all the pressure to maintain
the few plates I had shifted. One slipped back to neutral. Then the
pumps gained on it, and it shifted again.

I dashed up to the deck. Ah, the Moon was so close now! So horribly
close! The deck shadows were still. Through the forward bow windows the
Moon surface glared up at us.

       *       *       *       *       *

I reached the turret. The _Planetara_ was steady. Pitched bow-down, half
falling, half sliding like a rocket downward. The scarred surface of the
Moon spread wide under us.

These last horrible minutes were a blur. And there was always Anita's
face. She left Miko. Faced with death, he sat clinging. Ignoring her,
Moa, too, sat apart. Staring--

And Anita crept to me. "Gregg, dear one. The end...."

I tried the electronic engines from the stern, setting them in the
reverse. The streams of their light glowed from the stern, forward
along our hull, and flared down from our bow toward the Lunar surface.
But no atmosphere was here to give resistance. Perhaps the electronic
streams checked our fall a little. The pumps gave us pressure, just in
the last minutes, to slide a few of the hull-plates. But our bow stayed
down. We slid, like a spent rocket falling.

I recall the horror of that expanding Lunar surface. The maw of
Archimedes yawning. A blob. Widening to a great pit. Then I saw it was
to one side. Rushing upward.

A phantasmagoria of uprushing crags. Black and gray. Spires tinged with
Earth-light.

"Gregg, dear one--good-by."

Her gentle arms around me. The end of everything for us. I recall
murmuring, "Not falling free, Anita. Some hull-plates are set."

My dials showed another plate shifting, checking us a little further.
Good old Snap.

I calculated the next best plate to shift. I tried it. Slid it over.
Good old Snap....

Then everything faded but the feeling of Anita's arms around me.

"Gregg, dear one--"

The end of everything for us....

There was an up-rush of gray-black rock.

An impact....




CHAPTER XXII

_The Hiss of Death_


I opened my eyes to a dark blur of confusion. My shoulder hurt--a pain
shooting through it. Something lay like a weight on me. I could not seem
to move my left arm. Very queer! Then I moved it, and it hurt. I was
lying twisted: I sat up. And with a rush, memory came. The crash was
over. I am not dead. Anita--

She was lying beside me. There was a little light here in this silent
blur--a soft, mellow Earth-light filtering in the window. The weight on
me was Anita. She lay sprawled, her head and shoulders half way across
my lap.

Not dead! Thank God, not dead! She moved. Her arms went around me, and I
lifted her. The Earth-light glowed on her pale face; but her eyes opened
and she faintly smiled.

"It's past, Anita! We've struck, and we're still alive."

I held her as though all life's turgid danger were powerless to touch
us.

But in the silence my floating senses were brought back to reality by a
faint sound forcing itself upon me. A little hiss. The faintest
murmuring breath like a hiss. Escaping air!

I cast off her clinging arms. "Anita, this is madness!"

       *       *       *       *       *

For minutes we must have been lying there in the heaven of our embrace.
But air was escaping! The _Planetara's_ dome was broken--or cracked--and
our precious air was hissing out.

Full reality came to me at last. I was not seriously injured. I found
that I could move freely. I could stand. A twisted shoulder, a limp left
arm, but they were better in a moment.

And Anita did not seem to be hurt. Blood was upon her. But not her
blood.

Beside Anita, stretched face down on the turret grid, was the giant
figure of Miko. The blood lay in a small pool against his face. A
widening pool.

Moa was here. I thought her body twitched; then was still. This
soundless wreckage! In the dim glow of the wrecked turret with its two
motionless, broken human figures, it seemed as though Anita and I were
ghouls prowling. I saw that the turret had fallen over to the
_Planetara's_ deck. It lay dashed against the dome-side.

The deck was aslant. A litter of wreckage. A broken human figure
showed--one of the crew, who at the last must have come running up. The
forward observation tower was down on the chart-room roof: in its metal
tangle I thought I could see the legs of the tower look-out.

So this was the end of the brigands' adventure! The _Planetara's_ last
voyage! How small and futile are human struggles! Miko's daring
enterprise--so villainous, inhuman--brought all in a few moments to this
silent tragedy. The _Planetara_ had fallen thirty thousand miles. But
why? What had happened to Hahn? And where was Coniston, down in this
broken hull?

And Snap. I thought suddenly of Snap.

       *       *       *       *       *

I clutched at my wandering wits. This inactivity was death. The escaping
air hissed in my ears. Our precious air, escaping away into the vacant
desolation of the Lunar emptiness. Through one of the twisted, slanting
dome-windows a rocky spire was visible. The _Planetara_ lay bow-down,
wedged in a jagged cradle of Lunar rock. A miracle that the hull and
dome had held together.

"Anita, we must get out of here!"

I thought I was fully alert now. I recalled that the brigands had spoken
of having partly assembled their Moon equipment. If only we could find
suits and helmets!

"We must get out," I repeated. "Get to Grantline's camp."

"Their helmets are in the forward storage room, Gregg. I saw them
there."

She was staring at the fallen Miko and Moa. She shuddered and turned
away and gripped me. "In the forward storage room, by the port of the
emergency lock-exit."

If only the exit locks would operate! We must get out of here, but find
Snap first. Good old Snap! Would we find him lying dead?

We climbed from the slanting, fallen turret, over the wreckage of the
littered deck. It was not difficult, a lightness was upon us. The
_Planetara's_ gravity-magnetizers were dead: this was only the light
Moon-gravity pulling us.

"Careful, Anita. Don't jump too freely."

We leaped along the deck. The hiss of the escaping pressure was like a
clanging gong of warning to tell us to hurry. The hiss of death so
close!

"Snap--" I murmured.

"Oh, Gregg. I pray we may find him alive--!"

"And get out. We've got to rush it. Get out and find the Grantline
camp."

       *       *       *       *       *

But how far? Which way? I must remember to take food and water. If the
helmets were equipped with admission ports. If we could find Snap. If
the exit locks would work to let us out.

With a fifteen foot leap we cleared a pile of broken deck chairs. A man
lay groaning near them. I went back with a rush. Not Snap! A steward. He
had been a brigand, but he was a steward to me now.

"Get up! This is Haljan. Hurry, we must get out of here. The air is
escaping!"

But he sank back and lay still. No time to find if I could help him:
there were Anita and Snap to save.

We found a broken entrance to one of the descending passages. I flung
the debris aside and cleared it. Like a giant of strength with only this
Moon-gravity holding me, I raised a broken segment of the superstructure
and heaved it back.

Anita and I dropped ourselves down the sloping passage. The interior of
the wrecked ship was silent and dim. An occasional passage light was
still burning. The passage and all the rooms lay askew. Wreckage
everywhere: but the double-dome and hull-shell had withstood the shock.
Then I realized that the Erentz system was slowing down. Our heat, like
our air, was escaping, radiating away, a deadly chill settling upon
everything. And our walls were bulging. The silence and the deadly chill
of death would soon be here in these wrecked corridors. The end of the
_Planetara_. I wondered vaguely if the walls would explode.

We prowled like ghouls. We did not see Coniston. Snap had been by the
shifter-pumps. We found him in the oval doorway. He lay sprawled. Dead?
No, he moved. He sat up before we could get to him. He seemed confused,
but his senses clarified with the movement of our figures over him.

"Gregg! Why, Anita!"

"Snap! You're all right? We struck--the air is escaping."

       *       *       *       *       *

He pushed me away. He tried to stand. "I'm all right. I was up a minute
ago. Gregg, it's getting cold. Where is she? I had her here--she wasn't
killed. I spoke to her."

Irrational!

"Snap!" I held him, shook him. "Snap, old fellow!"

He said, normally. "Easy, Gregg. I'm all right now."

Anita gripped him. "Who, Snap?"

"She! There she is."

Another figure was here! On the grid-floor by the door oval. A figure
partly shrouded in a broken invisible cloak and hood. An invisible
cloak! I saw a white face with opened eyes regarding me. The face of a
girl.

Venza!

I bent down. "You!"

Anita cried, "Venza!"

Venza here? Why--how--my thoughts swept away. Venza here, dying? Her
eyes closed. But she murmured to Anita. "Where is he? I want him."

Dying? I murmured impulsively, "Here I am, Venza dear." Gently, as one
would speak with gentle sympathy to humor the dying. "Here I am, Venza."

But it was only the confusion of the shock upon her. And it was upon us
all. She pushed at Anita. "I want him." She saw me. This whimsical Venus
girl! Even here as we gathered, all of us blurred by the shock, confused
in the dim, wrecked ship with the chill of death coming--even here she
could make a jest. Her pale lips smiled.

"You, Gregg. I'm not hurt--I don't think I'm hurt." She managed to get
herself up on one elbow. "Did you think I wanted you with my dying
breath? Why, what conceit! Not you, Handsome Haljan! I was calling
Snap."

       *       *       *       *       *

He was down to her. "We're all right, Venza. It's over. We must get out
of the ship--the air is escaping."

We gathered in the oval doorway. We fought the confusion of panic.

"The exit port is this way."

Or was it? I answered Snap, "Yes, I think so."

The ship suddenly seemed a stranger to me. So cold. So vibrationless.
Broken lights. These slanting, wrecked corridors. With the ventilating
fans stilled, the air was turning fetid. Chilling. And thinning, with
escaping pressure, rarifying so that I could feel the grasp of it in my
lungs and the pin-pricks of my burning cheeks.

We started off. Four of us, still alive in this silent ship of death. My
blurred thoughts tried to cope with it all. Venza here. I recalled how
she had bade me create a diversion when the women passengers were
landing on the asteroid. She had carried out her purpose! In the
confusion she had not gone ashore. A stowaway here. She had secured the
cloak. Prowling, to try and help us, she had come upon Hahn. Had seized
his ray-cylinder and struck him down, and been herself knocked
unconscious by his dying lunge, which also had broken the tubes and
wrecked the _Planetara_. And Venza, unconscious, had been lying here
with the mechanism of her cloak still operating, so that we did not see
her when we came and found why Hahn did not answer my signals.

"It's here, Gregg."

Snap and I lifted the pile of Moon equipment. We located four suits and
helmets and the mechanisms to operate them.

"More are in the chart-room," Anita said.

But we needed no others. I robed Anita, and showed her the mechanisms.

"Yes. I understand."

       *       *       *       *       *

Snap was helping Venza. We were all stiff from the cold; but within the
suits and their pulsing currents, the blessed warmth came again.

The helmets had admission ports through which food and drink could be
taken. I stood with my helmet ready. Anita, Venza and Snap were bloated
and grotesque beside me. We had found food and water here, assembled in
portable cases which the brigands had prepared. Snap lifted them, and
signed to me he was ready.

My helmet shut out all sounds save my own breathing, my pounding heart,
and the murmur of the mechanism. The blessed warmth and pure air were
good.

We reached the hull port-locks. They operated! We went through in the
light of the head-lamps over our foreheads.

I closed the locks after us. An instinct to keep the air in the ship for
the other trapped humans lying there.

We slid down the sloping side of the _Planetara_. We were unweighted,
irrationally agile with the slight gravity. I fell a dozen feet and
landed with barely a jar.

We were out on the Lunar surface. A great sloping ramp of crags
stretched down before us. Gray-black rock tinged with Earth-light. The
Earth hung amid the stars in the blackness overhead like a huge section
of glowing yellow ball.

       *       *       *       *       *

This grim, desolate, silent landscape! Beyond the ramp, fifty feet below
us, a tumbled naked plain stretched away into blurred distance. But I
could see mountains off there. Behind us the towering, frowning
rampart-wall of Archimedes loomed against the sky.

I had turned to look back at the _Planetara_. She lay broken, wedged
between spires of upstanding rock. A few of her lights still gleamed.
The end of the _Planetara_!

The three grotesque figures of Anita, Venza and Snap had started off.
Hunchback figures with the tanks mounted on their shoulders. I bounded
and caught them. I touched Snap. We made audiphone contact.

"Which way do you think?" I demanded.

"I think this way, down the ramp. Away from Archimedes, toward the
mountains. It shouldn't be too far."

"You run with Venza. I'll hold Anita."

He nodded. "But we must keep together, Gregg."

We could soon run freely. Down the ramp, out over the tumbled plain.
Bounding, grotesque leaping strides. The girls were more agile, more
skilful. They were soon leading us. The Earth-shadows of their figures
leaped beside them. The _Planetara_ faded into the distance behind us.
Archimedes stood back there. Ahead, the mountains came closer.

An hour perhaps. I lost count of time. Occasionally we stopped to rest.
Were we going toward the Grantline camp? Would they see our tiny waving
headlights?

Another interval. Then far ahead of us on the ragged plain, lights
showed! Moving tiny spots of light! Headlights on helmeted figures!

We ran, monstrously leaping. A group of figures were off there.
Grantline's party? Snap gripped me.

"Grantline! We're safe, Gregg! Safe!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He took his bulb-light from his helmet: we stood in a group while he
waved it. A semaphore signal.

"_Grantline?_"

And the answer came. "_Yes. You, Dean?_"

Their personal code. No doubt of this--it was Grantline, who had seen
the _Planetara_ fall and had come to help us.

I stood then with my hand holding Anita. And I whispered, "It's
Grantline! We're safe, Anita, my darling!"

Death had been so close! Those horrible last minutes on the _Planetara_
had shocked us, marked us.

We stood trembling. And Grantline and his men came bounding up.

A helmeted figure touched me. I saw through the helmet-pane the visage
of a stern-faced, square-jawed, youngish man.

"Grantline? Johnny Grantline?"

"Yes," said his voice at my ear-grid. "I'm Grantline. You're Haljan?
Gregg Haljan?"

They crowded around us. Gripped us to hear our explanations.

Brigands! It was amazing to Johnny Grantline. But the menace was over
now, over as soon as Grantline had realized its existence. As though the
wreck of the _Planetara_ were foreordained by an all-wise Providence,
the brigands' adventure had come to tragedy.

We stood for a time discussing it. Then I drew apart, leaving Snap with
Grantline. And Anita joined me. I held her arm so that we had audiphone
contact.

"Anita, mine."

"Gregg, dear one."

Murmured nothings which mean so much to lovers!

       *       *       *       *       *

As we stood in the fantastic gloom of the Lunar desolation, with the
blessed Earth-light on us, I sent up a prayer of thankfulness. Not that
a hundred millions of treasure were saved. Not that the attack upon
Grantline had been averted. But only that Anita was given back to me. In
moments of greatest emotion the human mind individualizes. To me, there
was only Anita.

Life is very strange! The gate to the shining garden of our love seemed
swinging wide to let us in. Yet I recall that a vague fear still lay on
me. A premonition?

I felt a touch on my arm. A bloated helmet visor was thrust near my own.
I saw Snap's face peering at me.

"Grantline thinks we should return to the _Planetara_. Might find some
of them alive."

Grantline touched me. "It's only humanity."

"Yes," I said.

We went back. Some ten of us--a line of grotesque figures bounding with
slow, easy strides over the jagged, rock-strewn plain. Our lights danced
before us.

The _Planetara_ came at last into view. My ship. Again that pang swept
me as I saw her. This, her last resting place. She lay here in her open
tomb, shattered, broken, unbreathing. The lights on her were
extinguished. The Erentz system had ceased to pulse--the heart of the
dying ship, for a while beating faintly, but now at rest.

We left the two girls with some of Grantline's men at the admission
port. Snap, Grantline and I, with three others, went inside. There still
seemed to be air, but not enough so that we dared remove our helmets.

It was dark inside the wrecked ship. The corridors were black; the hull
control-rooms were dimly illumined with Earth-light straggling through
the windows.

This littered tomb! Already cold and silent with death. We stumbled over
a fallen figure. A member of the crew.

       *       *       *       *       *

Grantline straightened from examining him.

"Dead."

Earth-light fell on the horrible face. Puffed flesh, bloated red from
the blood which had oozed from its pores in the thinning air. I looked
away.

We prowled further. Hahn lay dead in the pump-room.

The body of Coniston should have been near here. We did not see it.

We climbed up to the slanting littered deck. The dome had not exploded,
but the air up here had almost all hissed away.

Again Grantline touched me. "That the turret?"

"Yes."

No wonder he asked! The wreckage was all so formless.

We climbed after Snap into the broken turret room. We passed the body of
that steward who just at the end had appealed to me and I had left
dying. The legs of the forward look-out still poked grotesquely up from
the wreckage of the observatory tower where it lay smashed down against
the roof of the chart-room.

We shoved ourselves into the turret. What was this? No bodies here! The
giant Miko was gone! The pool of his blood lay congealed into a frozen
dark splotch on the metal grid.

And Moa was gone! They had not been dead. Had dragged themselves out of
here, fighting desperately for life. We would find them somewhere around
here.

But we did not. Nor Coniston. I recalled what Anita had said: other
suits and helmets had been here in the nearby chart-room. The brigands
had taken them, and food and water doubtless, and escaped from the ship,
following us through the lower admission ports only a few minutes after
we had gone out.

       *       *       *       *       *

We made careful search of the entire ship. Eight of the bodies which
should have been here were missing: Miko, Moa, Coniston, and five of the
steward-crew.

We did not find them outside. They were hiding near here, no doubt, more
willing to take their chances than to yield now to us. But how, in all
this Lunar desolation, could we hope to locate them?

"No use," said Grantline. "Let them go. If they want death--well, they
deserve it."

But we were saved. Then, as I stood there, realization leaped at me.
Saved? Were we not indeed fatuous fools?

In all these emotion-swept moments since we had encountered Grantline,
memory of that brigand ship coming from Mars had never once occurred to
Snap or me!

I told Grantline now. His eyes through the visor stared at me blankly.

"What!"

I told him again. It would be here in eight days. Fully manned and
armed.

"But Haljan, we have almost no weapons! All my _Comet's_ space was taken
with mining equipment and the mechanisms for my camp. I can't signal
Earth! I was depending on the _Planetara_!"

It surged upon us. The brigand menace past? We were blindly
congratulating ourselves on our safety! But it would be eight days or
more before in distant Ferrok-Shahn the non-arrival of the _Planetara_
would cause any real comment. No one was searching for us--no one was
worried over us.

No wonder the crafty Miko was willing to take his chances out here in
the Lunar wilds! His ship, his reinforcements, his weapons were coming
rapidly!

And we were helpless. Almost unarmed. Marooned here on the Moon with our
treasure!

(_To be continued._)


               +-------------------------------------+
               |         ASTOUNDING STORIES          |
               |       _Appears on Newsstands_       |
               |  THE FIRST THURSDAY IN EACH MONTH.  |
               +-------------------------------------+




The Soul-Snatcher

_By Tom Curry_

[Illustration: _He began to twist and turn, as though torn by some
invisible force._]

  From twenty miles away stabbed the "atom-filtering" rays to Allen
  Baker in his cell in the death house.


The shrill voice of a woman stabbed the steady hum of the many machines
in the great, semi-darkened laboratory. It was the onslaught of weak
femininity against the ebony shadow of Jared, the silent negro servant
of Professor Ramsey Burr. Not many people were able to get to the famous
man against his wishes; Jared obeyed orders implicitly and was generally
an efficient barrier.

"I will see him, I will," screamed the middle-aged woman. "I'm Mrs. Mary
Baker, and he--he--it's his fault my son is going to die. His fault.
_Professor! Professor Burr!_"

Jared was unable to keep her quiet.

Coming in from the sunlight, her eyes were not yet accustomed to the
strange, subdued haze of the laboratory, an immense chamber crammed full
of equipment, the vista of which seemed like an apartment in hell.
Bizarre shapes stood out from the mass of impedimenta, great stills
which rose full two stories in height, dynamos, immense tubes of colored
liquids, a hundred puzzles to the inexpert eye.

The small, plump figure of Mrs. Baker was very out of place in this
setting. Her voice was poignant, reedy. A look at her made it evident
that she was a conventional, good woman. She had soft, cloudy golden
eyes and a pathetic mouth, and she seemed on the point of tears.

"Madam, madam, de doctor is busy," whispered Jared, endeavoring to shoo
her out of the laboratory with his polite hands. He was respectful, but
firm.

She refused to obey. She stopped when she was within a few feet of the
activity in the laboratory, and stared with fear and horror at the
center of the room, and at its occupant, Professor Burr, whom she had
addressed during her flurried entrance.

The professor's face, as he peered at her, seemed like a disembodied
stare, for she could see only eyes behind a mask of lavender gray glass
eyeholes, with its flapping ends of dirty, gray-white cloth.

She drew in a deep breath--and gasped, for the pungent fumes, acrid and
penetrating, of sulphuric and nitric acids, stabbed her lungs. It was
like the breath of hell, to fit the simile, and aptly Professor Burr
seemed the devil himself, manipulating the infernal machines.

       *       *       *       *       *

Acting swiftly, the tall figure stepped over and threw two switches in a
single, sweeping movement. The vermillion light which had lived in a
long row of tubes on a nearby bench abruptly ceased to writhe like so
many tongues of flame, and the embers of hell died out.

Then the professor flooded the room in harsh gray-green light, and
stopped the high-pitched, humming whine of his dynamos. A shadow picture
writhing on the wall, projected from a lead-glass barrel, disappeared
suddenly, the great color filters and other machines lost their
semblance of horrible life, and a regretful sigh seemed to come from the
metal creatures as they gave up the ghost.

To the woman, it had been entering the abode of fear. She could not
restrain her shudders. But she bravely confronted the tall figure of
Professor Burr, as he came forth to greet her.

He was extremely tall and attenuated, with a red, bony mask of a face
pointed at the chin by a sharp little goatee. Feathery blond hair,
silvered and awry, covered his great head.

"Madam," said Burr in a gentle, disarmingly quiet voice, "your manner of
entrance might have cost you your life. Luckily I was able to deflect
the rays from your person, else you might not now be able to voice your
complaint--for such seems to be your purpose in coming here." He turned
to Jared, who was standing close by. "Very well, Jared. You may go.
After this, it will be as well to throw the bolts, though in this case I
am quite willing to see the visitor."

Jared slid away, leaving the plump little woman to confront the famous
scientist.

For a moment, Mrs. Baker stared into the pale gray eyes, the pupils of
which seemed black as coal by contrast. Some, his bitter enemies,
claimed that Professor Ramsey Burr looked cold and bleak as an iceberg,
others that he had a baleful glare. His mouth was grim and determined.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yet, with her woman's eyes, Mrs. Baker, looking at the professor's bony
mask of a face, with the high-bridged, intrepid nose, the passionless
gray eyes, thought that Ramsey Burr would be handsome, if a little less
cadaverous and more human.

"The experiment which you ruined by your untimely entrance," continued
the professor, "was not a safe one."

His long white hand waved toward the bunched apparatus, but to her to
the room seemed all glittering metal coils of snakelike wire, ruddy
copper, dull lead, and tubes of all shapes. Hell cauldrons of unknown
chemicals seethed and slowly bubbled, beetle-black bakelite fixtures
reflected the hideous light.

"Oh," she cried, clasping her hands as though she addressed him in
prayer, "forget your science, Professor Burr, and be a man. Help me.
Three days from now my boy, my son, whom I love above all the world, is
to die."

"Three days is a long time," said Professor Burr calmly. "Do not lose
hope: I have no intention of allowing your son, Allen Baker, to pay the
price for a deed of mine. I freely confess it was I who was responsible
for the death of--what was the person's name?--Smith, I believe."

"It was you who made Allen get poor Mr. Smith to agree to the
experiments which killed him, and which the world blamed on my son," she
said. "They called it the deed of a scientific fiend, Professor Burr,
and perhaps they are right. But Allen is innocent."

"Be quiet," ordered Burr, raising his hand. "Remember, madam, your son
Allen is only a commonplace medical man, and while I taught him a little
from my vast store of knowledge, he was ignorant and of much less value
to science and humanity than myself. Do you not understand, can you not
comprehend, also, that the man Smith was a martyr to science? He was no
loss to mankind, and only sentimentalists could have blamed anyone for
his death. I should have succeeded in the interchange of atoms which we
were working on, and Smith would at this moment be hailed as the first
man to travel through space in invisible form, projected on radio waves,
had it not been for the fact that the alloy which conducts the three
types of sinusoidal failed me and burned out. Yes, it was an error in
calculation, and Smith would now be called the Lindbergh of the Atom but
for that. Yet Smith has not died in vain, for I have finally corrected
this error--science is but trial and correction of error--and all will
be well."

"But Allen--Allen must not die at all!" she cried. "For weeks he has
been in the death house: it is killing me. The Governor refuses him a
pardon, nor will he commute my son's sentence. In three days he is to
die in the electric chair, for a crime which you admit you alone are
responsible for. Yet you remain in your laboratory, immersed in your
experiments, and do nothing, nothing!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The tears came now, and she sobbed hysterically. It seemed that she was
making an appeal to someone in whom she had only a forlorn hope.

"Nothing?" repeated Burr, pursing his thin lips. "Nothing? Madam, I have
done everything. I have, as I have told you, perfected the experiment.
It is successful. Your son has not suffered in vain, and Smith's name
will go down with the rest of science's martyrs as one who died for the
sake of humanity. But if you wish to save your son, you must be calm.
You must listen to what I have to say, and you must not fail to carry
out my instructions to the letter. I am ready now."

Light, the light of hope, sprang in the mother's eyes. She grasped his
arm and stared at him with shining face, through tear-dipped eyelashes.

"Do--do you mean it? Can you save him? After the Governor has refused
me? What can you do? No influence will snatch Allen from the jaws of the
law: the public is greatly excited and very hostile toward him."

A quiet smile played at the corners of Burr's thin lips.

"Come," he said. "Place this cloak about you. Allen wore it when he
assisted me."

The professor replaced his own mask and conducted the woman into the
interior of the laboratory.

"I will show you," said Professor Burr.

She saw before her now, on long metal shelves which appeared to be
delicately poised on fine scales whose balance was registered by
hair-line indicators, two small metal cages.

Professor Burr stepped over to a row of common cages set along the wall.
There was a small menagerie there, guinea pigs--the martyrs of the
animal kingdom--rabbits, monkeys, and some cats.

       *       *       *       *       *

The man of science reached in and dragged out a mewing cat, placing it
in the right-hand cage on the strange table. He then obtained a small
monkey and put this animal in the left-hand cage, beside the cat. The
cat, on the right, squatted on its haunches, mewing in pique and looking
up at its tormentor. The monkey, after a quick look around, began to
investigate the upper reaches of its new cage.

Over each of the animals was suspended a fine, curious metallic
armament. For several minutes, while the woman, puzzled at how this
demonstration was to affect the rescue of her condemned son, waited
impatiently, the professor deftly worked at the apparatus, connecting
wires here and there.

"I am ready now," said Burr. "Watch the two animals carefully."

"Yes, yes," she replied, faintly, for she was half afraid.

The great scientist was stooping over, looking at the balances of the
indicators through microscopes.

She saw him reach for his switches, and then a brusk order caused her to
turn her eyes back to the animals, the cat in the right-hand cage, the
monkey at the left.

Both animals screamed in fear, and a sympathetic chorus sounded from the
menagerie, as a long purple spark danced from one gray metal pole to the
other, over the cages on the table.

At first, Mrs. Baker noticed no change. The spark had died, the
professor's voice, unhurried, grave, broke the silence.

"The first part of the experiment is over," he said. "The ego--"

"Oh, heavens!" cried the woman. "You've driven the poor creatures mad!"

       *       *       *       *       *

She indicated the cat. That animal was clawing at the top bars of its
cage, uttering a bizarre, chattering sound, somewhat like a monkey. The
cat hung from the bars, swinging itself back and forth as on a trapeze,
then reached up and hung by its hind claws.

As for the monkey, it was squatting on the floor of its cage, and it
made a strange sound in its throat, almost a mew, and it hissed several
times at the professor.

"They are not mad," said Burr. "As I was explaining to you, I have
finished the first portion of the experiment. The ego, or personality of
one animal has been taken out and put into the other."

She was unable to speak. He had mentioned madness: was he, Professor
Ramsey Burr, crazy? It was likely enough. Yet--yet the whole thing, in
these surroundings, seemed plausible. As she hesitated about speaking,
watching with fascinated eyes the out-of-character behavior of the two
beasts, Burr went on.

"The second part follows at once. Now that the two egos have
interchanged, I will shift the bodies. When it is completed, the monkey
will have taken the place of the cat, and vice versa. Watch."

He was busy for some time with his levers, and the smell of ozone
reached Mrs. Baker's nostrils as she stared with horrified eyes at the
animals.

She blinked. The sparks crackled madly, the monkey mewed, the cat
chattered.

Were her eyes going back on her? She could see neither animal
distinctly: they seemed to be shaking in some cosmic disturbance, and
were but blurs. This illusion--for to her, it seemed it must be
optical--persisted, grew worse, until the quaking forms of the two
unfortunate creatures were like so much ectoplasm in swift motion,
ghosts whirling about in a dark room.

Yet she could see the cages quite distinctly, and the table and even the
indicators of the scales. She closed her eyes for a moment. The acrid
odors penetrated to her lungs, and she coughed, opening her eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now she could see clearly again. Yes, she could see a monkey, and it was
climbing, quite naturally about its cage; it was excited, but a monkey.
And the cat, while protesting mightily, acted like a cat.

Then she gasped. Had her mind, in the excitement, betrayed her? She
looked at Professor Burr. On his lean face there was a smile of triumph,
and he seemed to be awaiting her applause.

She looked again at the two cages. Surely, at first the cat had been in
the right-hand cage, and the monkey in the left! And now, the monkey was
in the place where the cat had been and the cat had been shifted to the
left-hand cage.

"So it was with Smith, when the alloys burned out," said Burr. "It is
impossible to extract the ego or dissolve the atoms and translate them
into radio waves unless there is a connection with some other ego and
body, for in such a case the translated soul and body would have no
place to go. Luckily, for you, madam, it was the man Smith who was
killed when the alloys failed me. It might have been Allen, for he was
the second pole of the connection."

"But," she began faintly, "how can this mad experiment have anything to
do with saving my boy?"

He waved impatiently at her evident denseness. "Do you not understand?
It is so I will save Allen, your son. I shall first switch our egos, or
souls, as you say. Then switch the bodies. It must always take this
sequence; why, I have not ascertained. But it always works thus."

Mrs. Baker was terrified. What she had just seen, smacked of the
blackest magic--yet a woman in her position must grasp at straws. The
world blamed her son for the murder of Smith, a man Professor Burr had
made use of as he might a guinea pig, and Allen must be snatched from
the death house.

"Do--do you mean you can bring Allen from the prison here--just by
throwing those switches?" she asked.

"That is it. But there is more to it than that, for it is not magic,
madam; it is science, you understand, and there must be some physical
connection. But with your help, that can easily be made."

       *       *       *       *       *

Professor Ramsey Burr, she knew, was the greatest electrical engineer
the world had ever known. And he stood high as a physicist. Nothing
hindered him in the pursuit of knowledge, they said. He knew no fear,
and he lived on an intellectual promontory. He was so great that he
almost lost sight of himself. To such a man, nothing was impossible.
Hope, wild hope, sprang in Mary Baker's heart, and she grasped the bony
hand of the professor and kissed it.

"Oh, I believe, I believe," she cried. "You can do it. You can save
Allen. I will do anything, anything you tell me to."

"Very well. You visit your son daily at the death house, do you not?"

She nodded; a shiver of remembrance of that dread spot passed through
her.

"Then you will tell him the plan and let him agree to see me the night
preceding the electrocution. I will give him final instructions as to
the exchange of bodies. When my life spirit, or ego, is confined in your
son's body in the death house, Allen will be able to perform the feat of
changing the bodies, and your son's flesh will join his soul, which will
have been temporarily inhabiting my own shell. Do you see? When they
find me in the cell where they suppose your son to be, they will be
unable to explain the phenomenon; they can do nothing but release me.
Your son will go here, and can be whisked away to a safe place of
concealment."

"Yes, yes. What am I to do besides this?"

Professor Burr pulled out a drawer near at hand, and from it extracted a
folded garment of thin, shiny material.

"This is metal cloth coated with the new alloy," he said, in a matter of
fact tone. He rummaged further, saying as he did so, "I expected you
would be here to see me, and I have been getting ready for your visit.
All is prepared, save a few odds and ends which I can easily clean up in
the next two days. Here are four cups which Allen must place under each
leg of his bed, and this delicate little director coil you must take
especial pains with. It is to be slipped under your son's tongue at the
time appointed."

       *       *       *       *       *

She was staring at him still, half in fear, half in wonder, yet she
could not feel any doubt of the man's miraculous powers. Somehow, while
he talked to her and rested those cold eyes upon her, she was under the
spell of the great scientist. Her son, before the trouble into which he
had been dragged by the professor, had often hinted at the abilities of
Ramsey Burr, given her the idea that his employer was practically a
necromancer, yet a magician whose advanced scientific knowledge was
correct and explainable in the light of reason.

Yes, Allen had talked to her often when he was at home, resting from his
labors with Professor Burr. He had spoken of the new electricity
discovered by the famous man, and also told his mother that Burr had
found a method of separating atoms and then transforming them into a
form of radio-electricity so that they could be sent in radio waves, to
designated points. And she now remembered--the swift trial and
conviction of Allen on the charge of murder had occupied her so deeply
that she had forgotten all else for the time being--that her son had
informed her quite seriously that Professor Ramsey Burr would soon be
able to transport human beings by radio.

"Neither of us will be injured in any way by the change," said Burr
calmly. "It is possible for me now to break up human flesh, send the
atoms by radio-electricity, and reassemble them in their proper form by
these special transformers and atom filters."

Mrs. Baker took all the apparatus presented her by the professor. She
ventured the thought that it might be better to perform the experiment
at once, instead of waiting until the last minute, but this Professor
Burr waved aside as impossible. He needed the extra time, he said, and
there was no hurry.

She glanced about the room, and her eye took in the giant switches of
copper with their black handles; there were others of a gray-green metal
she did not recognize. Many dials and meters, strange to her, confronted
the little woman. These things, she felt with a rush of gratitude toward
the inanimate objects, would help to save her son, so they interested
her and she began to feel kindly toward the great machines.

       *       *       *       *       *

Would Professor Burr be able to save Allen as he claimed? Yes, she
thought, he could. She would make Allen consent to the trial of it, even
though her son had cursed the scientist and cried he would never speak
to Ramsey Burr again.

She was escorted from the home of the professor by Jared, and going out
into the bright, sunlit street, blinked as her eyes adjusted themselves
to the daylight after the queer light of the laboratory. In a bundle she
had a strange suit and the cups; her purse held the tiny coil, wrapped
in cotton.

How could she get the authorities to consent to her son having the suit?
The cups and the coil she might slip to him herself. She decided that a
mother would be allowed to give her son new underwear. Yes, she would
say it was that.

She started at once for the prison. Professor Burr's laboratory was but
twenty miles from the cell where her son was incarcerated.

As she rode on the train, seeing people in everyday attire, commonplace
occurrences going on about her, the spell of Professor Burr faded, and
cold reason stared her in the face. Was it nonsense, this idea of
transporting bodies through the air, in invisible waves? Yet, she was
old-fashioned; the age of miracles had not passed for her. Radio, in
which pictures and voices could be sent on wireless waves, was
unexplainable to her. Perhaps--

She sighed, and shook her head. It was hard to believe. It was also hard
to believe that her son was in deadly peril, condemned to death as a
"scientific fiend."

Here was her station. A taxi took her to the prison, and after a talk
with the warden, finally she stood there, before the screen through
which she could talk to Allen, her son.

"Mother!"

Her heart lifted, melted within her. It was always thus when he spoke.
"Allen," she whispered softly.

They were allowed to talk undisturbed.

"Professor Burr wishes to help you," she said, in a low voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

Her son, Allen Baker, M. D., turned eyes of misery upon her. His ruddy
hair was awry. This young man was imaginative and could therefore suffer
deeply. He had the gift of turning platitudes into puzzles, and his
hazel eyes were lit with an elfin quality, which, if possible, endeared
him the more to his mother. All his life he had been the greatest thing
in the world to this woman. To see him in such straits tore her very
heart. When he had been a little boy, she had been able to make joy
appear in those eyes by a word and a pat; now that he was a man, the
matter was more difficult, but she had always done her best.

"I cannot allow Professor Burr to do anything for me," he said dully.
"It is his fault that I am here."

"But Allen, you must listen, listen carefully. Professor Burr can save
you. He says it was all a mistake, the alloy was wrong. He has not come
forward before, because he knew he would be able to iron out the trouble
if he had time, and thus snatch you from this terrible place."

She put as much confidence into her voice as she could. She must, to
enhearten her son. Anything to replace that look of suffering with one
of hope. She would believe, she did believe. The bars, the great masses
of stone which enclosed her son would be as nothing. He would pass
through them, unseen, unheard.

For a time, Allen spoke bitterly of Ramsey Burr, but his mother pleaded
with him, telling him it was his only chance, and that the deviltry
Allen suspected was imaginary.

"He--he killed Smith in such an experiment," said Allen. "I took the
blame, as you know, though I only followed his instructions. But you say
he claims to have found the correct alloys?"

"Yes. And this suit, you must put it on. But Professor Burr himself will
be here to see you day after to-morrow, the day preceding the--the--"
She bit her lip, and got out the dreaded word, "the electrocution. But
there won't be any electrocution, Allen; no, there cannot be. You will
be safe, safe in my arms." She had to fight now to hold her belief in
the miracle which Burr had promised. The solid steel and stone dismayed
her brain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The new alloy seemed to interest Allen Baker. His mother told him of the
exchange of the monkey and the cat, and he nodded excitedly, growing
more and more restive, and his eyes began to shine with hope and
curiosity.

"I have told the warden about the suit, saying it was something I made
for you myself," she said, in a low voice. "You must pretend the coil
and the cups are things you desire for your own amusement. You know,
they have allowed you a great deal of latitude, since you are educated
and need diversion."

"Yes, yes. There may be some difficulty, but I will overcome that. Tell
Burr to come. I'll talk with him and he can instruct me in the final
details. It is better than waiting here like a rat in a trap. I have
been afraid of going mad, mother, but this buoys me up."

He smiled at her, and her heart sang in the joy of relief.

How did the intervening days pass? Mrs. Baker could not sleep, could
scarcely eat, she could do nothing but wait, wait, wait. She watched the
meeting of her son and Ramsey Burr, on the day preceding the date set
for the execution.

"Well, Baker," said Burr nonchalantly, nodding to his former assistant.
"How are you?"

"You see how I am," said Allen, coldly.

"Yes, yes. Well, listen to what I have to say and note it carefully.
There must be no slip. You have the suit, the cups and the director
coil? You must keep the suit on, the cups go under the legs of the cot
you lie on. The director under your tongue."

The professor spoke further with Allen, instructing him in scientific
terms which the woman scarcely comprehended.

"To-night, then at eleven-thirty," said Burr, finally. "Be ready."

       *       *       *       *       *

Allen nodded. Mrs. Baker accompanied Burr from the prison.

"You--you will let me be with you?" she begged.

"It is hardly necessary," said the professor.

"But I must. I must see Allen the moment he is free, to make sure he is
all right. Then, I want to be able to take him away. I have a place in
which we can hide, and as soon as he is rescued he must be taken out of
sight."

"Very well," said Burr, shrugging. "It is immaterial to me, so long as
you do not interfere with the course of the experiment. You must sit
perfectly still, you must not speak until Allen stands before you and
addresses you."

"Yes, I will obey you," she promised.

Mrs. Baker watched Professor Ramsey Burr eat his supper. Burr himself
was not in the least perturbed; it was wonderful, she thought, that he
could be so calm. To her, it was the great moment, the moment when her
son would be saved from the jaws of death.

Jared carried a comfortable chair into the laboratory and she sat in it,
quiet as a mouse, in one corner of the room.

It was nine o'clock, and Professor Burr was busy with his preparations.
She knew he had been working steadily for the past few days. She gripped
the arms of her chair, and her heart burned within her.

The professor was making sure of his apparatus. He tested this bulb and
that, and carefully inspected the curious oscillating platform, over
which was suspended a thickly bunched group of gray-green wire, which
was seemingly an antenna. The numerous indicators and implements seemed
to be satisfactory, for at quarter after eleven Burr gave an exclamation
of pleasure and nodded to himself.

Burr seemed to have forgotten the woman. He spoke aloud occasionally,
but not to her, as he drew forth a suit made of the same metal cloth as
Allen must have on at this moment.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tension was terrific, terrific for the mother, who was awaiting the
culmination of the experiment which would rescue her son from the
electric chair--or would it fail? She shuddered. What if Burr were mad?

But look at him, she was sure he was sane, as sane as she was.

"He will succeed," she murmured, digging her nails into the palms of her
hands. "I _know_ he will."

She pushed aside the picture of what would happen on the morrow, but a
few hours distant, when Allen, her son, was due to be led to a legal
death in the electric chair.

Professor Burr placed the shiny suit upon his lank form, and she saw him
put a duplicate coil, the same sort of small machine which Allen
possessed, under his tongue.

The Mephistophelian figure consulted a matter-of-fact watch; at that
moment, Mrs. Baker heard, above the hum of the myriad machines in the
laboratory, the slow chiming of a clock. It was the moment set for the
deed.

Then, she feared the professor was insane, for he suddenly leaped to the
high bench of the table on which stood one of the oscillating platforms.

Wires led out from this, and Burr sat gently upon it, a strange figure
in the subdued light.

Professor Burr, however, she soon saw, was not insane. No, this was part
of it. He was reaching for switches near at hand, and bulbs began to
glow with unpleasant light, needles on indicators swung madly, and at
last, Professor Burr kicked over a giant switch, which seemed to be the
final movement.

For several seconds the professor did not move. Then his body grew
rigid, and he twisted a few times. His face, though not drawn in pain,
yet twitched galvanically, as though actuated by slight jabs of
electricity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The many tubes fluoresced, flared up in pulsing waves of violet and
pink: there were gray bars of invisibility or areas of air in which
nothing visible showed. There came the faint, crackling hum of machinery
rather like a swarm of wasps in anger. Blue and gray thread of fire spat
across the antenna. The odor of ozone came to Mrs. Baker's nostrils,
and the acid odors burned her lungs.

She was staring at him, staring at the professor's face. She half rose
from her chair, and uttered a little cry.

The eyes had changed, no longer were they cold, impersonal, the eyes of
a man who prided himself on the fact that he kept his arteries soft and
his heart hard; they were loving, soft eyes.

"Allen," she cried.

Yes, without doubt, the eyes of her son were looking at her out of the
body of Professor Ramsey Burr.

"Mother," he said gently. "Don't be alarmed. It is successful. I am
here, in Professor Burr's body."

"Yes," she cried, hysterically. It was too weird to believe. It seemed
dim to her, unearthly.

"Are you all right, darling?" she asked timidly.

"Yes. I felt nothing beyond a momentary giddy spell, a bit of nausea and
mental stiffness. It was strange, and I have a slight headache. However,
all is well."

He grinned at her, laughed with the voice which was not his, yet which
she recognized as directed by her son's spirit. The laugh was cracked
and unlike Allen's whole-hearted mirth, yet she smiled in sympathy.

"Yes, the first part is a success," said the man. "Our egos have
interchanged. Soon, our bodies will undergo the transformation, and then
I must keep under cover. I dislike Burr--yet he is a great man. He has
saved me. I suppose the slight headache which I feel is one bequeathed
me by Burr. I hope he inherits my shivers and terrors and the neuralgia
for the time being, so he will get some idea of what I have undergone."

He had got down from the oscillating platform, the spirit of her son in
Ramsey's body.

"What--what are you doing now?" she asked.

"I must carry out the rest of it myself," he said. "Burr directed me
when we talked yesterday. It is more difficult when one subject is out
of the laboratory, and the tubes must be checked."

       *       *       *       *       *

He went carefully about his work, and she saw him replacing four of the
tubes with others, new ones, which were ready at hand. Though it was the
body of Ramsey Burr, the movements were different from the slow, precise
work of the professor, and more and more, she realized that her son
inhabited the shell before her.

For a moment, the mother thought of attempting to dissuade her son from
making the final change; was it not better thus, than to chance the
disintegration of the bodies? Suppose something went wrong, and the
exchange did not take place, and her son, that is, his spirit, went back
to the death house?

Midnight struck as he worked feverishly at the apparatus, the long face
corrugated as he checked the dials and tubes. He worked swiftly, but
evidently was following a procedure which he had committed to memory,
for he was forced to pause often to make sure of himself.

"Everything is O. K.," said the strange voice at last. He consulted his
watch. "Twelve-thirty," he said.

She bit her lip in terror, as he cried, "Now!" and sprang to the table
to take his place on the metallic platform, which oscillated to and fro
under his weight. The delicate grayish metal antenna, which, she knew,
would form a glittering halo of blue and gray threads of fire, rested
quiescent above his head.

"This is the last thing," he said calmly, as he reached for the big
ebony handled switch. "I'll be myself in a few minutes, mother."

"Yes, son, yes."

The switch connected, and Allen Baker, in the form of Ramsey Burr,
suddenly cried out in pain. His mother leaped up to run to his side, but
he waved her away. She stood, wringing her hands, as he began to twist
and turn, as though torn by some invisible force. Eery screams came
from the throat of the man on the platform, and Mrs. Baker's cries of
sympathy mingled with them.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mighty motors hummed in a high-pitched, unnatural whine, and
suddenly Mrs. Baker saw the tortured face before her grow dim. The
countenance of the professor seemed to melt, and then there came a dull,
muffled thud, a burst of white-blue flame, the odor of burning rubber
and the tinkle of broken glass.

Back to the face came the clarity of outline, and still it was Professor
Ramsey Burr's body she stared at.

Her son, in the professor's shape, climbed from the platform, and looked
about him as though dazed. An acrid smoke filled the room, and burning
insulation assailed the nostrils.

Desperately, without looking at her, his lips set in a determined line,
the man went hurriedly over the apparatus again.

"Have I forgotten, did I do anything wrong?" she heard his anguished
cry.

Two tubes were burned out, and these he replaced as swiftly as possible.
But he was forced to go all over the wiring, and cut out whatever had
been short-circuited so that it could be hooked up anew with uninjured
wire.

Before he was ready to resume his seat on the platform, after half an
hour of feverish haste, a knock came on the door.

The person outside was imperative, and Mrs. Baker ran over and opened
the portal. Jared, the whites of his eyes shining in the dim light,
stood there. "De professah--tell him dat de wahden wishes to talk with
him. It is very important, ma'am."

The body of Burr, inhabited by Allen's soul, pushed by her, and she
followed falteringly, wringing her hands. She saw the tall figure snatch
at the receiver and listen.

"Oh, God," he cried.

At last, he put the receiver back on the hook, automatically, and sank
down in a chair, his face in his hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Baker went to him quickly. "What is it, Allen?" she cried.

"Mother," he said hoarsely, "it was the warden of the prison. He told me
that Allen Baker had gone temporarily insane, and claimed to be
Professor Ramsey Burr in my body."

"But--but what is the matter?" she asked. "Cannot you finish the
experiment, Allen? Can't you change the two bodies now?"

He shook his head. "Mother--they electrocuted Ramsey Burr in my body at
twelve forty-five to-night!"

She screamed. She was faint, but she controlled herself with a great
effort.

"But the electrocution was not to be until morning," she said.

Allen shook his head. "They are allowed a certain latitude, about twelve
hours," he said. "Burr protested up to the last moment, and begged for
time."

"Then--then they must have come for him and dragged him forth to die in
the electric chair while you were attempting the second part of the
change," she said.

"Yes. That was why it failed. That's why the tubes and wires burned out
and why we couldn't exchange bodies. It began to succeed, then I could
feel something terrible had happened. It was impossible to complete the
Beta circuit, which short-circuited. They took him from the cell, do you
see, while I was starting the exchange of the atoms."

       *       *       *       *       *

For a time, the mother and her boy sat staring at one another. She saw
the tall, eccentric figure of Ramsey Burr before her, yet she saw also
the soul of her son within that form. The eyes were Allen's, the voice
was soft and loving, and his spirit was with her.

"Come, Allen, my son," she said softly.

"Burr paid the price," said Allen, shaking his head. "He became a martyr
to science."

The world has wondered why Professor Ramsey Burr, so much in the
headlines as a great scientist, suddenly gave up all his experiments and
took up the practice of medicine.

Now that the public furor and indignation over the death of the man
Smith has died down, sentimentalists believe that Ramsey Burr has
reformed and changed his icy nature, for he manifests great affection
and care for Mrs. Mary Baker, the mother of the electrocuted man who had
been his assistant.


                +--------------------------------------+
                |             BY NO MEANS              |
                |   _Miss the Opening Installment of   |
                |  the Extraordinary Four-Part Novel_  |
                |            MURDER MADNESS            |
                |         _By Murray Leinster_         |
                |                                      |
                |     _Starting In Our Next Issue_     |
                +--------------------------------------+




The Ray of Madness

_By Captain S. P. Meek_

[Illustration: "_That's the one," he exclaimed. "Hold the glass there
for a moment._"]

  Dr. Bird discovers a dastardly plot, amazing in its mechanical
  ingenuity, behind the apparently trivial eye trouble of the
  President.


A knock sounded at the door of Dr. Bird's private laboratory in the
Bureau of Standards. The famous scientist paid no attention to the
interruption but bent his head lower over the spectroscope with which he
was working. The knock was repeated with a quality of quiet insistence
upon recognition. The Doctor smothered an exclamation of impatience and
strode over to the door and threw it open to the knocker.

"Oh, hello, Carnes," he exclaimed as he recognized his visitor. "Come in
and sit down and keep your mouth shut for a few minutes. I am busy just
now but I'll be at liberty in a little while."

[Illustration]

"There's no hurry, Doctor," replied Operative Carnes of the United
States Secret Service as he entered the room and sat on the edge of the
Doctor's desk. "I haven't got a case up my sleeve this time; I just came
in for a little chat."

"All right, glad to see you. Read that latest volume of the
_Zeitschrift_ for a while. That article of Von Beyer's has got me
guessing, all right."

Carnes picked up the indicated volume and settled himself to read. The
Doctor bent over his apparatus. Time and again he made minute
adjustments and gave vent to muttered exclamations of annoyance at the
results he obtained. Half an hour later he rose from his chair with a
sigh and turned to his visitor.

"What do you think of Von Beyer's alleged discovery?" he asked the
operative.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's too deep for me, Doctor," replied the operative. "All that I can
make out of it is that he claims to have discovered a new element named
'lunium,' but hasn't been able to isolate it yet. Is there anything
remarkable about that? It seems to me that I have read of other new
elements being discovered from time to time."

"There is nothing remarkable about the discovery of a new element by the
spectroscopic method," replied Dr. Bird. "We know from Mendeleff's
table that there are a number of elements which we have not discovered
as yet, and several of the ones we know were first detected by the
spectroscope. The thing which puzzles me is that so brilliant a man as
Von Beyer claims to have discovered it in the spectra of the moon. His
name, lunium, is taken from Luna, the moon."

"Why not the moon? Haven't several elements been first discovered in the
spectra of stars?"

"Certainly. The classic example is Lockyer's discovery of an orange line
in the spectra of the sun in 1868. No known terrestrial element gave
such a line and he named the new element which he deduced helium, from
Helos, the sun. The element helium was first isolated by Ramsey some
twenty-seven years later. Other elements have been found in the spectra
of stars, but the point I am making is that the sun and the stars are
incandescent bodies and could be logically expected to show the
characteristic lines of their constituent elements in their spectra. But
the moon is a cold body without an atmosphere and is visible only by
reflected light. The element, lunium, may exist in the moon, but the
manifestations which Von Beyer has observed must be, not from the moon,
but from the source of the reflected light which he spectro-analyzed."

       *       *       *       *       *

"You are over my depth, Doctor."

"I'm over my own. I have tried to follow Von Beyer's reasoning and I
have tried to check his findings. Twice this evening I thought that I
caught a momentary glimpse on the screen of my fluoroscope of the
ultra-violet line which he reports as characteristic of lunium, but I am
not certain. I haven't been able to photograph it yet. He notes in his
article that the line seems to be quite impermanent and fades so rapidly
that an accurate measurement of its wave-length is almost impossible.
However, let's drop the subject. How do you like your new assignment?"

"Oh, it's all right. I would rather be back on my old work."

"I haven't seen you since you were assigned to the Presidential detail.
I suppose that you fellows are pretty busy getting ready for Premier
McDougal's visit?"

"I doubt if he will come," replied Carnes soberly. "Things are not
exactly propitious for a visit of that sort just now."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird sat back in his chair in surprise.

"I thought that the whole thing is arranged. The press seems to think
so, at any rate."

"Everything is arranged, but arrangements may be cancelled. I wouldn't
be surprised to hear that they were."

"Carnes," replied Dr. Bird gravely, "you have either said too much or
too little. There is something more to this than appears on the surface.
If it is none of my business, don't hesitate to tell me so and I'll
forget what you have said, but if I can help you any, speak up."

Carnes puffed meditatively at his pipe for a few minutes before
replying.

"It's really none of your business. Doctor," he said at length, "and yet
I know that a corpse is a chatterbox compared to you when you are told
anything in confidence, and I really need to unload my mind. It has been
kept from the press so far; but I don't know how long it can be kept
muzzled. In strict confidence, the President of the United State acts
as though he were crazy."

"Quite a section of the press has claimed that for a long time," replied
Dr. Bird, with a twinkle in his eye.

"I don't mean crazy in that way, Doctor, I mean _really_ crazy. Bugs!
Nuts! Bats in his belfry!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird whistled softly.

"Are you sure, Carnes?" he asked.

"As sure as may be. Both of his physicians think so. They were
non-committal for a while, especially as the first attack waned and he
seemed to recover, but when his second attack came on more violently
than the first and the President began to act queerly, they had to take
the Presidential detail into their confidence. He has been quietly
examined by some of the greatest psychiatrists in the country, but none
of them have ventured on a positive verdict as to the nature of the
malady. They admit, of course, that it exists, but they won't classify
it. The fact that it is intermittent seems to have them stopped. He was
bad a month ago but he recovered and became, to all appearances, normal
for a time. About a week ago he began to show queer symptoms again and
now he is getting worse daily. If he goes on getting worse for another
week, it will have to be announced so that the Vice-President can take
over the duties of the head of the government."

       *       *       *       *       *

"What are the symptoms?"

"The first we noticed was a failing of his memory. Coupled with this was
a restlessness and a habit of nocturnal prowling. He tosses continually
on his bed and mutters and at times leaps up and rages back and forth in
his bedchamber, howling and raging. Then he will calm down and compose
himself and go to sleep, only to wake in half an hour and go through the
same performance. It is pretty ghastly for the men on night guard."

"How does he act in the daytime?"

"Heavy and lethargic. His memory becomes a complete blank at times and
he talks wildly. Those are the times we must guard against."

"Overwork?" queried the Doctor.

"Not according to his physicians. His physical health is splendid and
his appetite unusually keen. He takes his exercise regularly and suffers
no ill health except for a little eye trouble."

Dr. Bird leaped to his feet.

"Tell me more about this eye trouble, Carnes," he demanded.

"Why, I don't know much about it, Doctor. Admiral Clay told me that it
was nothing but a mild opthalmia which should yield readily to
treatment. That was when he told me to see that the shades of the
President's study were partially drawn to keep the direct sunlight out."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Opthalmia be sugared! What do his eyes look like?"

"They are rather red and swollen and a little bloodshot. He has a
tendency to shut them while he is talking and he avoids light as much as
possible. I hadn't noticed anything peculiar about it."

"Carnes, did you ever see a case of snow blindness?"

The operative looked up in surprise.

"Yes, I have. I had it myself once in Maine. Now that you mention it,
his case does look like snow blindness, but such a thing is absurd in
Washington in August."

Dr. Bird rummaged in his desk and drew out a book, which he consulted
for a moment.

"Now, Carnes," he said, "I want some dates from you and I want them
accurately. Don't guess, for a great deal may depend on the accuracy of
your answers. When was this mental disability on the part of the
President first noticed?"

Carnes drew a pocket diary from his coat and consulted it.

"The seventeenth of July," he replied. "That is, we are sure, in view
of later developments, that that was the date it first came on. We
didn't realize that anything was wrong until the twentieth. On the night
of the nineteenth the President slept very poorly, getting up and
creating a disturbance twice, and on the twentieth he acted so queerly
that it was necessary to cancel three conferences."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird checked off the dates on the book before him and nodded.

"Go on," he said, "and describe the progress of the malady by days."

"It got progressively worse until the night of the twenty-third. The
twenty-fourth he was no worse, and on the twenty-fifth a slight
improvement was noticed. He got steadily better until, by the third or
fourth of August, he was apparently normal. About the twelfth he began
to show signs of restlessness which have increased daily during the past
week. Last night, the nineteenth, he slept only a few minutes and Brady,
who was on guard, says that his howls were terrible. His memory has been
almost a total blank today and all of his appointments were cancelled,
ostensibly because of his eye trouble. If he gets any worse, it probably
will be necessary to inform the country as to his true condition."

When Carnes had finished, Dr. Bird sat for a time in concentrated
thought.

"You did exactly right in coming to me, Carnes," he said presently. "I
don't think that this is a job for a doctor at all--I believe that it
needs a physicist and a chemist and possibly a detective to cure him.
We'll get busy."

"What do you mean, Doctor?" demanded Carnes. "Do you think that some
exterior force is causing the President's disability?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I think nothing, Carnes," replied the Doctor grimly, "but I intend to
know something before I am through. Don't ask for explanations: this is
not the time for talk, it is the time for action. Can you get me into
the White House to-night?"

"I doubt it, Doctor, but I'll try. What excuse shall I give? I am not
supposed to have told you anything about the President's illness."

"Get Bolton, your chief, on the phone and tell him that you have talked
to me when you shouldn't have. He'll blow up, but after he is through
exploding, tell him that I smell a rat and that I want him down here at
once with _carte blanche_ authority to do as I see fit in the White
House. If he makes any fuss about it, remind him of the fact that he has
considered me crazy several times in the past when events showed that I
was right. If he won't play after that, let me talk to him."

"All right, Doctor," replied Carnes as he picked up the scientist's
telephone and gave the number of the home of the Chief of the Secret
Service. "I'll try to bully him out of it. He has a good deal of
confidence in your ability."

       *       *       *       *       *

Half an hour later the door of Dr. Bird's laboratory opened suddenly to
admit Bolton.

"Hello, Doctor," exclaimed the Chief, "what the dickens have you got on
your mind now? I ought to skin Carnes alive for talking out of turn, but
if you really have an idea, I'll forgive him. What do you suspect?"

"I suspect several things, Bolton, but I haven't time to tell you what
they are. I want to get quietly into the White House as promptly as
possible."

"That's easy," replied Bolton, "but first I want to know what the object
of the visit is."

"The object is to see what I can find out. My ideas are entirely too
nebulous to attempt to lay them out before you just now. You've never
worked directly with me on a case before, but Carnes can tell you that I
have my own methods of working and that I won't spill my ideas until I
have something more definite to go on than I have at present."

"The Doctor is right, Chief," said Carnes. "He has an idea all right,
but wild horses won't drag it out of him until he's ready to talk.
You'll have to take him on faith, as I always do."

Bolton hesitated a moment and then shrugged his shoulders.

"Have it your own way, Doctor," he said. "Your reputation, both as a
scientist and as an unraveller of tangled skeins, is too good for me to
boggle about your methods. Tell me what you want and I'll try to get
it."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I want to get into the White House without undue prominence being given
to my movements, and listen outside the President's door for a short
time. Later I will want to examine his sleeping quarters carefully and
to make a few tests. I may be entirely wrong in my assumptions, but I
believe that there is something there that requires my attention."

"Come along," said Bolton. "I'll get you in and let you listen, but the
rest we'll have to trust to luck on. You may have to wait until
morning."

"We'll cross that bridge when we get to it," replied the Doctor. "I'll
get a little stuff together that we may need."

In a few moments he had packed some apparatus in a bag and, taking up it
and an instrument case, he followed Bolton and Carnes down the stairs
and out onto the grounds of the Bureau of Standards.

"It's a beautiful moon, isn't it?" he observed.

Carnes assented absently to the Doctor's remark, but Bolton paid no
attention to the luminous disc overhead, which was flooding the
landscape with its mellow light.

"My car is waiting," he announced.

"All right, old man, but stop for a moment and admire this moon,"
protested the Doctor. "Have you ever seen a finer one?"

"Come on and let the moon alone," snorted Bolton.

"My dear man, I absolutely refuse to move a step until you pause in your
headlong devotion to duty and pay the homage due to Lady Luna. Don't
you realize, you benighted Christian, that you are gazing upon what has
been held to be a deity, or at least the visible manifestation of deity,
for ages immemorial? Haven't you ever had time to study the history of
the moon-worshipping cults? They are as old as mankind, you know. The
worship of Isis was really only an exalted type of moon worship. The
crescent moon, you may remember, was one of her most sacred emblems."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bolton paused and looked at the Doctor suspiciously.

"What are you doing--pulling my leg?" he demanded.

"Not at all, my dear fellow. Carnes, doesn't the sight of the glowing
orb of night influence you to pious meditation upon the frailty of human
life and the insignificance of human ambition?"

"Not to any very great degree," replied Carnes dryly.

"Carnesy, old dear, I fear that you are a crass materialist. I am
beginning to despair of ever inculcating in you any respect for the
finer and subtler things of life. I must try Bolton. Bolton, have you
ever seen a finer moon? Remember that I won't move a step until you have
carefully considered the matter and fully answered my question."

Bolton looked first at the Doctor, then at Carnes, and finally he looked
reluctantly at the moon.

"It's a fine one," he admitted, "but all full moons look large on clear
nights at this time of the year."

"Then you _have_ studied the moon?" cried Dr. Bird with delight. "I was
sure--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He broke off his speech suddenly and listened. From a distance came the
mournful howl of a dog. It was answered in a moment by another howl from
a different direction. Dog after dog took up the chorus until the air
was filled with the melancholy wailing of the animals.

"See, Bolton," remarked the Doctor, "even the dogs feel the chastening
influence of the Lady of Night and repent of the sins of their youth and
the follies of their manhood, or should one say doghood? Come along. I
feel that the call of duty must tear us away from the contemplation of
the beauties of nature."

He led the way to Bolton's car and got in without further words. A
half-hour later, Bolton led the way into the White House. A word to the
secret service operative on guard at the door admitted him and his
party, and he led the way to the newly constructed solarium where the
President slept. An operative stood outside the door.

"What word, Brady?" asked Bolton in a whisper.

"He seems worse, sir. I doubt if he has slept at all. Admiral Clay has
been in several times, but he didn't do much good. There, listen! The
President is getting up again."

       *       *       *       *       *

From behind the closed door which confronted them came sounds of a
person rising from a bed and pacing the floor, slowly at first, and then
more and more rapidly, until it was almost a run. A series of groans
came to the watchers and then a long drawn out howl. Bolton shuddered.

"Poor devil!" he muttered.

Dr. Bird shot a quick glance around.

"Where is Admiral Clay?" he asked.

"He is sleeping upstairs. Shall I call him?"

"No. Take me to his room."

The President's naval physician opened the door in response to Bolton's
knock.

"Is he worse?" he demanded anxiously.

"I don't think so, Admiral," replied Bolton. "I want to introduce you to
Dr. Bird of the Bureau of Standards. He wants to talk with you about the
case."

"I am honored, Doctor," said the physician as he grasped the scientist's
outstretched hand. "Come in. Pardon my appearance, but I was startled
out of a doze when you knocked. Have a chair and tell me how I can serve
you."

Dr. Bird drew a notebook from his pocket.

"I have received certain dates in connection with the President's malady
from Operative Carnes," he said, "and I wish you to verify them."

"Pardon me a moment, Doctor," interrupted the Admiral, "but may I ask
what is your connection with the matter? I was not aware that you were a
physician or surgeon."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Dr. Bird is here by the authority of the secret service," replied
Bolton. "He has no connection with the medical treatment of the
President, but permit me to remind you that the secret service is
responsible for the safety of the President and so have a right to
demand such details about him as are necessary for his proper
protection."

"I have no intention in obstructing you in the proper performance of
your duties, Mr. Bolton," began the Admiral stiffly.

"Pardon me, Admiral," broke in Dr. Bird, "it seems to me that we are
getting started wrong. I suspect that certain exterior forces are more
or less concerned in this case and I have communicated my suspicions to
Mr. Bolton. He in turn brought me here in order to request from you your
cooperation in the matter. We have no idea of demanding anything and are
really seeking help which we believe that you can give us."

"Pardon me, Admiral," said Bolton. "I had no intention of angering you."

"I am at your service, gentlemen," replied Admiral Clay. "What
information did you wish, Doctor?"

"At first merely a verification of the history of the case as I have
it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird read the notes he had taken down from Carnes and the Admiral
nodded agreement.

"Those dates are correct," he said.

"Now, Admiral, there are two further points on which I wish
enlightenment. The first is the opthalmia which is troubling the
patient."

"It is nothing to be alarmed about as far as symptoms go, Doctor,"
replied the Admiral. "It is a rather mild case of irritation, somewhat
analogous to granuloma, but rather stubborn. He had an attack several
weeks ago and while it did not yield to treatment as readily as I could
have wished, it did clear up nicely in a couple of weeks and I was quite
surprised at this recurrent attack. His sight is in no danger."

"Have you tried to connect this opthalmia with his mental aberrations?"

"Why no, Doctor, there is no connection."

"Are you sure?"

"I am certain. The slight pain which his eyes give him could never have
such an effect upon the mind of so able and energetic a man as he is."

"Well, we'll let that pass for the moment. The other question is this:
has he any form of skin trouble?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Admiral looked up in surprise.

"Yes, he has," he admitted. "I had mentioned it to no one, for it really
amounts to nothing, but he has a slight attack of some obscure form of
dermatitis which I am treating. It is affecting only his face and
hands."

"Please describe it."

"It has taken the form of a brown pigmentation on the hands. On the face
it causes a slight itching and subsequent peeling of the affected
areas."

"In other words, it is acting like sunburn?"

"Why, yes, somewhat. It is not that, however, for he has been exposed to
the sun very little lately, on account of his eyes."

"I notice that he is sleeping in the new solarium which was added last
winter to the executive mansion. Can you tell me with what type of glass
it is equipped?"

"Yes. It is not equipped with glass at all, but with fused quartz."

"When did he start to sleep there?"

"As soon as it was completed."

"And all the time the windows have been of fused quartz?"

"No. They were glazed at first, but the glass was removed and the fused
quartz substituted at my suggestion about two months ago, just before
this trouble started."

"Thank you, Admiral. You have given me several things to think about. My
ideas are a little too nebulous to share as yet but I think that I can
give you one piece of very sound advice. The President is spending a
very restless night. If you would remove him from the solarium and get
him to lie down in a room which is glazed with ordinary glass, and pull
down the shades so that he will be in the dark, I think that he will
pass a better night."

       *       *       *       *       *

Admiral Clay looked keenly into the piercing black eyes of the Doctor.

"I know something of you by reputation, Bird," he said slowly, "and I
will follow your advice. Will you tell me why you make this particular
suggestion?"

"So that I can work in that solarium to-night without interruption,"
replied Dr. Bird. "I have some tests which I wish to carry out while it
is still dark. If my results are negative, forget what I have told you.
If they yield any information, I will be glad to share it with you at
the proper time. Now get the President out of that solarium and tell me
when the coast is clear."

The Admiral donned a dressing gown and stepped out of the room. He
returned in fifteen minutes.

"The solarium is at your disposal, Doctor," he announced. "Shall I
accompany you?"

"If you wish," assented Dr. Bird as he picked up his apparatus and
strode out of the room.

In the solarium he glanced quickly around, noting the position of each
of the articles of furniture.

"I presume that the President always sleeps with his head in this
direction?" he remarked, pointing to the pillow on the disturbed bed.

The Admiral nodded assent. Dr. Bird opened the bag which he had packed
in his laboratory, took out a sheet of cardboard covered with a metallic
looking substance, and placed it on the pillow. He stepped back and
donned a pair of smoked glasses, watching it intently. Without a word he
took off the glasses and handed them to the Admiral. The Admiral donned
them and looked at the pillow. As he did so an exclamation broke from
his lips.

"That plate seems to glow," he said in an astonished voice.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird stepped forward and laid his hand on the pillow. He was wearing
a wrist watch with a radiolite dial. The substance suddenly increased
its luminescence and began to glow fiercely, long luminous streamers
seeming to come from the dial. The Doctor took away his hand and
substituted a bottle of liquid for the plate on the pillow. Immediately
the bottle began to glow with a phosphorescent light.

"What on earth is it?" gasped Carnes.

"Excitation of a radioactive fluid," replied the Doctor. "The question
is, what is exciting it. Somebody get a stepladder."

While Bolton was gone after the ladder, the Doctor took from his bag
what looked like an ordinary pane of glass.

"Take this, Carnes," he directed, "and start holding it over each of
those panes of quartz which you can reach. Stop when I tell you to."

       *       *       *       *       *

The operative held the glass over each of the panes in succession, but
the Doctor, who kept his eyes covered with the smoked glasses and
fastened on the plate which he had replaced on the pillow, said nothing.
When Bolton arrived with the ladder, the process went on. One end and
most of the front of the solarium had been covered before an exclamation
from the Doctor halted the work.

"That's the one," he exclaimed. "Hold the glass there for a moment."

Hurriedly he removed the plate from the pillow and replaced the phial of
liquid. There was only a very feeble glow.

"Good enough," he cried. "Take away the glass, but mark that pane, and
be ready to replace it when I give the word."

From the instrument case he had brought he took out a spectroscope. He
turned back the mattress and mounted it on the bedstead.

"Cover that pane," he directed.

Carnes did so, and the Doctor swung the receiving tube of the instrument
until it pointed at the covered pane. He glanced into the eyepiece, and
then held a tiny flashlight for an instant opposite the third tube.

"Uncover that pane," he said.

Carnes took down the glass plate and the Doctor gazed into the
instrument. He made some adjustments.

"Are you familiar with spectroscopy, Admiral?" he asked.

"Somewhat."

"Take a squint in here and tell me what you see."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Admiral applied his eye to the instrument and looked long and
earnestly.

"There are some lines there, Doctor," he said, "but your instrument is
badly out of adjustment. They are in what should be the ultra-violet
sector, according to your scale."

"I forgot to tell you that this is a fluoroscopic spectroscope designed
for the detection of ultra-violet lines," replied Dr. Bird. "Those lines
you see are ultra-violet, made visible to the eye by activation of a
radioactive compound whose rays in turn impinge on a zinc blende sheet.
Do you recognize the lines?"

"No, I don't."

"Small wonder; I doubt whether there are a dozen people who would. I
have never seen them before, although I recognize them from descriptions
I have read. Bolton, come here. Sight along this instrument and through
that plate of glass which Carnes is holding and tell me what office that
window belongs to."

Bolton sighted as directed up at the side of the State, War and Navy
Building.

"I can't tell exactly at this time of night, Doctor," he said, "but I'll
go into the building and find out."

"Do so. Have you a flashlight?"

"Yes."

"Flash it momentarily out of each of the suspected windows in turn until
you get an answering flash from here. When you do, flash it out of each
pane of glass in the window until you get another flash from here. Then
come back and tell me what office it is. Mark the pane so that we can
locate it again in the morning."

       *       *       *       *       *

"It is the office of the Assistant to the Adjutant General of the Army,"
reported Bolton ten minutes later.

"What is there in the room?"

"Nothing but the usual desks and chairs."

"I suspected as much. The window is merely a reflector. That is all that
we can do for to-night, gentlemen. Admiral, keep your patient quiet and
in a room with _glass_ windows, preferably with the shades drawn, until
further notice. Bolton, meet me here with Carnes at sunrise. Have a
picked detail of ten men standing by where we can get hold of them in a
hurry. In the mean time, get the Chief of Air Service out of bed and
have him order a plane at Langley Field to be ready to take off at 6
A. M. He is not to take off, however, until I give him orders to do so.
Do you understand?"

"Everything will be ready for you, Doctor, but I confess that I don't
know what it is all about."

"It's the biggest case you ever tackled, old man, and I hope that we can
pull it off successfully. I'd like to go over it with you now, but I'll
be busy at the Bureau for the rest of the night. Drop me off there, will
you?"

At sunrise the next morning, Bolton met Dr. Bird at the entrance to the
White House grounds.

"Where is your detail?" he asked.

"In the State, War and Navy Building."

"Good. I want to go to the solarium, put a light on the place where the
President's pillow was last night, and mark that pane of quartz we were
looking through. Then we'll join the detail."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird placed the light and walked with Carnes across the White House
grounds. Bolton's badge secured admission to the State, War and Navy
Building for the party and they made their way to the office of the
Assistant to the Adjutant General.

"Did you mark the pane of glass through which you flashed your light
last night, Bolton?" asked the Doctor.

The detective touched one of the panes.

"Good," exclaimed the Doctor. "I notice that this window has hooks for a
window washer's belt. Get a life belt, will you?"

When the belt was brought, the Doctor turned to Carnes.

"Carnes," he said, "hook on this life saver and climb out on the window
ledge. Take this piece of apparatus with you."

He handed Carnes a piece of apparatus which looked like two telescopes
fastened to a base, with a screw adjustment for altering the angles of
the barrels.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carnes took it and looked at it inquiringly.

"That is what I was making at the Bureau last night," explained Dr.
Bird. "It is a device which will enable me to locate the source of the
beam which was reflected from this pane of glass onto the President's
pillow. I'll show you how to work it. You know that when light is
reflected the angle of reflection always equals the angle of incidence?
Well, you place these three feet against the pane of glass, thus putting
the base of the instrument in a plane parallel to the pane of glass. By
turning these two knobs, one of which gives lateral and the other
vertical adjustment, you will manipulate the instrument until the first
telescope is pointing directly toward the President's pillow. Now notice
that the two telescope barrels are fastened together and are connected
to the knobs, so that when the knobs are turned, the scopes are turned
in equal and opposite amounts. When one is turned from its present
position five degrees to the west, the other automatically turns five
degrees to the east. When one is elevated, the other is correspondingly
depressed. Thus, when the first tube points toward the pillow, the other
will point toward the source of the reflected beam."

"Clever!" ejaculated Bolton.

"It is rather crude and may not be accurate enough to locate the source
exactly, but at least it will give us a pretty good idea of where to
look. Given time, a much more accurate instrument could have been made,
but two telescopic rifle sights and a theodolite base were all the
materials I could find to work with. Climb out, Carnesy, and do your
stuff."

       *       *       *       *       *

Carnes climbed out on the window and fastened the hooks of the life
saver to the rings set in the window casings. He sat the base of the
instrument against the pane of glass and manipulated the telescope knobs
as Dr. Bird signalled from the inside. The scientist was hard to please
with the adjustment, but at last the cross hairs of the first telescope
were centered on the light in the solarium. He changed his position and
stared through the second tube.

"The angle is too acute and the distance too great for accuracy," he
said with an air of disappointment. "The beam comes from the roof of a
house down along Pennsylvania Avenue, but I can't tell from here which
one it is. Take a look, Bolton."

The Chief of the Secret Service stared through the telescope.

"I couldn't be sure, Doctor," he replied. "I can see something on the
roof of one of the houses, but I can't tell what it is and I couldn't
tell the house when I got in front of it."

"It won't do to make a false move," said the Doctor. "Did you arrange
for that plane?"

"It is waiting your orders at the field, Doctor."

"Good. I'll go up to the office of the Chief of Air Service and get in
touch with the pilot over the Chief's private line. There are some
orders that I wish to give him and some signals to be arranged."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird returned in a few minutes.

"The plane is taking off now and will be over the city soon," he
announced. "We'll take a stroll down the Avenue until we are in the
vicinity of the house, and then wait for the plane. Carnes will take
five of your men and go down behind the house and the rest of us will go
in front. Which building do you think it is, Bolton?"

"About the fourth from the corner."

"All right, the men going down the back will take station behind the
house next to the corner and the rest of us will get in front of the
same building. When the plane comes over, watch it. If you receive no
signal, go to the next house and wait for him to make a loop and come
over you again. Continue this until the pilot throws a white parachute
over. That is the signal that we are covering the right house. When you
get that signal, Carnes, leave two men outside and break in with the
other three. Get that apparatus on the roof and the men who are
operating it. Bolton and I will attack the front door at the same time.
Does everybody understand?"

Murmurs of assent came from the detail.

"All right, let's go. Carnes, lead out with your men and go half a block
ahead so that the two parties will arrive in position at about the same
time."

       *       *       *       *       *

Carnes left the building with five of the operatives. Dr. Bird and
Bolton waited for a few minutes and then started down Pennsylvania
Avenue, the five men of their squad following at intervals. For
three-quarters of a mile they sauntered down the street.

"This should be it, Doctor," said Bolton.

"I think so, and here comes our plane."

They watched the swift scout plane from Langley Field swing down low
over the house and then swoop up into the sky again without making a
signal. The party walked down the street one house and paused. Again the
plane swept over them without sign. As they stopped in front of the next
house a white parachute flew from the cockpit of the plane and the
aircraft, its mission accomplished, veered off to the south toward its
hangar.

"This is the place," cried Bolton. "Haggerty and Johnson, you two cover
the street. Bemis, take the lower door. The rest come with me."

       *       *       *       *       *

Followed closely by Dr. Bird and two operatives, Bolton sprinted across
the street and up the steps leading to the main entrance of the house.
The door was barred, and he hurled his weight against it without result.

"One side, Bolton," snapped Dr. Bird.

The diminutive Chief drew aside and Dr. Bird's two hundred pounds of
bone and muscle crashed against the door. The lock gave and the Doctor
barely saved himself from sprawling headlong on the hall floor. A
woman's scream rang out, and the Doctor swore under his breath.

"Upstairs! To the roof!" he cried.

Followed by the rest of the party, he sprinted up the stairway which
opened before him. Just as he reached the top his way was barred by an
Amazonian figure in a green bathrobe.

"Who th' divil arre yer?" demanded an outraged voice.

"Police," snapped Bolton. "One side!"

"Wan side, is it?" demanded the fiery haired Amazon. "The divil a stip
ye go until ye till me ye'er bizness. Phwat th' divil arre yer doin' in
th' house uv a rayspictable female at this hour uv th' marnin'?"

"One side, I tell you!" cried Bolton as he strove to push past the
figure that barred the way.

"Oh, ye wud, wud yer, little mann?" demanded the Irishwoman as she
grasped Bolton by the collar and shook him as a terrier does a rat. Dr.
Bird stifled his laughter with difficulty and seized her by the arm.
With a heave on Bolton's collar she raised him from the ground and swung
him against the Doctor, knocking him off his feet.

"Hilp! P'lice! Murther!" she screamed at the top of her voice.

"Damn it, woman, we're on--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird's voice was cut short by the sound of a pistol shot from the
roof, followed by two others. The Irishwoman dropped Bolton and slumped
into a sitting position and screamed lustily. Bolton and Dr. Bird, with
the two operatives at their heels, raced for the roof. Before they
reached it another volley of shots rang out, these sounding from the
rear of the building. They made their way to the upper floor and found a
ladder running to a skylight in the roof. At the foot of the ladder
stood one of Carnes' party.

"What is it, Williams?" demanded Bolton.

"I don't know, Chief. Carnes and the other two went up there, and then I
heard shooting. My orders were to let no one come down the ladder."

As he spoke, Carnes' head appeared at the skylight.

"It's the right place, all right, Doctor," he called. "Come on up, the
shooting is all over."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird mounted the ladder and stepped out on the roof. Set on one edge
was a large piece of apparatus, toward which the scientist eagerly
hastened. He bent over it for a few moments and then straightened up.

"Where is the operator?" he asked.

Carnes silently led the way to the edge of the roof and pointed down.
Dr. Bird leaned over. At the foot of the fire escape he saw a crumpled
dark heap, with a secret service operative bending over it.

"Is he dead, Olmstead?" called Carnes.

"Dead as a mackerel," came the reply. "Richards got him through the head
on his first shot."

"Good business," said Dr. Bird. "We probably could never have secured a
conviction and the matter is best hushed up anyway. Bolton, have two of
your men help me get this apparatus up to the Bureau. I want to examine
it a little. Have the body taken to the morgue and shut up the press.
Find out which room the chap occupied and search it, and bring all his
papers to me. From a criminal standpoint, this case is settled, but I
want to look into the scientific end of it a little more."

"I'd like to know what it was all about, Doctor," protested Bolton. "I
have followed your lead blindly, and now I have a housebreaking without
search-warrant and a killing to explain, and still I am about as much in
the dark as I was at the beginning."

"Excuse me, Bolton," said Dr. Bird contritely; "I didn't mean to slight
you. Admiral Clay wants to know about it and so does Carnes, although he
knows me too well to say so. As soon as I have digested the case I'll
let you know and I'll go over the whole thing with you."

       *       *       *       *       *

A week later Dr. Bird sat in conference with the President in the
executive office of the White House. Beside him sat Admiral Clay, Carnes
and Bolton.

"I have told the President as much as I know, Doctor," said the Admiral,
"and he would like to hear the details from your lips. He has fully
recovered from his malady and there is no danger of exciting him."

"I cannot read Russian," said Dr. Bird slowly, "and so was forced to
depend on one of my assistants to translate the papers which Mr. Bolton
found in Stokowsky's room. There is nothing in them to definitely
connect him with the Russian Union of Soviet Republics, but there is
little doubt in my mind that he was a Red agent and that Russia supplied
the money which he spent. It would be disastrous to Russia's plans to
have too close an accord between this country and the British Empire,
and I have no doubt that the coming visit of Premier McDougal was the
underlying cause of the attempt. So much for the reason.

"As to how I came to suspect what was happening, the explanation is very
simple. When Carnes first told me of your malady, Mr. President, I
happened to be checking Von Beyer's results in the alleged discovery of
a new element, lunium. In the article describing his experiments, Von
Beyer mentions that when he tried to observe the spectra, he encountered
a mild form of opthalmia which was quite stubborn to treatment. He also
mentions a peculiar mental unbalance and intense exhilaration which the
rays seemed to cause both in himself and in his assistants. The analogy
between his observations and your case struck me at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

"For ages the moon has been an object of worship by various religious
sects, and some of the most obscene orgies of which we have record
occurred in the moonlight. The full moon seems to affect dogs to a state
of partial hypnosis with consequent howling and evident pain in the
eyes. Certain feeble minded persons have been known to be adversely
affected by moonlight as well as some cases of complete mental
aberration. In other words, while moonlight has no practical effect on
the normal human in its usual concentration, it does have an adverse
effect on certain types of mentality and, despite the laughter of
medical science, there seems to be something in the theory of 'moon
madness.' This effect Von Beyer attributed to the emanations of lunium,
which element he detected in the spectra of the moon, in the form of a
wide band in the ultra-violet region.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I obtained from Carnes a history of your case, and when I found that
your attacks grew violent with the full moon and subsided with the new
moon, I was sure that I was on the right track, although I had at that
time no way of knowing whether it was from natural or artificial causes
that the effect was being produced. I interviewed Admiral Clay and found
that you were suffering from a form of dermititis resembling sunburn,
and that convinced me that an attack was being made on your sanity, for
an excess of ultra-violet light will always tend to produce sunburn. I
inquired about the windows of your solarium, for ultra-violet light will
not pass through a lead glass. When the Admiral told me that the glass
had been replaced with fused quartz, which is quite permeable to
ultra-violet and that the change had been almost coincident with the
start of your malady, I asked him to get you out of the solarium and let
me examine it.

"By means of certain fluorescent substances which I used, I found that
your pillow was being bathed in a flood of ultra-violet light, and the
fluoro-spectroscope soon told me that lunium emanations were present in
large quantities. These rays were not coming to you directly from their
source, but one of the windows of the State, War and Navy Building was
being used as a reflector. I located the approximate source of the ray
by means of an improvised apparatus, and we surrounded the place.
Stokowsky was killed while attempting to escape. I guess that is about
all there is to it."

"Thank you, Doctor," said the President. "I would be interested in a
description of the apparatus which he used to produce this effect."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The apparatus was quite simple, Sir. It was merely a large collector of
moonlight, which was thrown after collection onto a lunium plate. The
resultant emanations were turned into a parallel beam by a parabolic
reflector and focused, through a rock crystal lens with an extremely
long focal length, onto your pillow."

"Then Stokowsky had isolated Von Beyer's new element?" asked the
President.

"I am still in doubt whether it is a new element or merely an allotropic
modification of the common element, cadmium. The plate which he used has
a very peculiar property. When moonlight, or any other reflected light
of the same composition falls on it, it acts on the ray much as the
button of a Roentgen tube acts on a cathode ray. As the cathode ray is
absorbed and an entirely new ray, the X-ray, is given off by the button,
just so is the reflected moonlight absorbed and a new ray of
ultra-violet given off. This is the ray which Von Beyer detected. I
thought that I could catch traces of Von Beyer's lines in my
spectroscope, and I think now that it is due to a trace of lunium in the
cadmium plating of the barrels. Von Beyer could have easily made the
same mistake. Von Beyer's work, together with Stokowsky's opens up an
entirely new field of spectroscopic research. I would give a good deal
to go over to Baden and go into the matter with Von Beyer and make some
plans for the exploitation of the new field, but I'm afraid that my
pocketbook wouldn't stand the trip."

"I think that the United States owes you that trip, Dr. Bird," said the
Chief Executive with a smile. "Make your plans to go as soon as you get
your data together. I think that the Treasury will be able to take care
of the expense without raising the income tax next year."


       +------------------------------------------------------+
       |                                                      |
       |                 _IN THE NEXT ISSUE_                  |
       |                                                      |
       |                                                      |
       |                    Murder Madness                    |
       |                                                      |
       |  _Beginning an intensely Gripping, Four-Part Novel_  |
       |                                                      |
       |                _By_ MURRAY LEINSTER                  |
       |                                                      |
       |                                                      |
       |                  The Atom Smasher                    |
       |                                                      |
       |     _A Thrilling Adventure into Time and Space_      |
       |                                                      |
       |                _By_ VICTOR ROUSSEAU                  |
       |                                                      |
       |                                                      |
       |               Into the Ocean's Depths                |
       |                                                      |
       |      _A Sequel to_ "_From the Ocean's Depths_"       |
       |                                                      |
       |              _By_ SEWELL PEASLEE WRIGHT              |
       |                                                      |
       |                                                      |
       |                 Brigands of the Moon                 |
       |                                                      |
       |          _Part Three of the Amazing Serial_          |
       |                                                      |
       |                  _By_ RAY CUMMINGS                   |
       |                                                      |
       |                                                      |
       |                  ----_And Others!_                   |
       |                                                      |
       +------------------------------------------------------+




[Illustration: _The Readers' Corner_

_A Meeting Place for Readers of_
Astounding Stories]


_Our Thanks_

Three months ago the Clayton Magazines presented to lovers of Science
Fiction everywhere a new magazine with a brand-new policy--Astounding
Stories--and now it is the Editor's great pleasure to announce to our
thousands of friends that this new magazine is enjoying a splendid
success.

Within twenty-four hours of the time that Astounding Stories was
released for sale, letters of praise began pouring into our office,
and--and this is significant--many of them clearly revealed that their
writers had grasped the essential difference of the new Science Fiction
magazine over the others.

We cannot better state this difference, this improvement, than by
quoting what the Reader whose letter appears under the caption, "And
Kind to Their Grandmothers," says in his very first paragraph: "And I
was still more pleased, and surprised, to find that the Editor seems to
know that such stories should have real story interest, besides a
scientific idea." It is exactly that. Every story that appears in
Astounding Stories not only must contain some of the forecasted
scientific achievements of To-morrow, but must be told vividly,
excitingly, with all the human interest that goes to make any story
enjoyable To-day.

The Editor and staff of Astounding Stories express their sincere thanks
to all who have contributed to our splendid start--especially to those
who had the kindness to write in with their helpful criticism.

Already one of your common suggestions has been taken up and embodied in
our magazine, and so we have this new department, "The Readers'
Corner," which from now on will be an informal meeting place for all
readers of Astounding Stories. We want you never to forget that a
cordial and perpetual invitation is extended to you to write in and talk
over with all of us anything of interest you may have to say in
connection with our magazine.

If you can toss in a word of praise, that's fine; if only criticism,
we'll welcome that just as much, for we may be able to find from it a
way to improve our magazine. If you have your own private theory of how
airplanes will be run in 2500, or if you think the real Fourth Dimension
is different from what it is sometimes described--write in and share
your views with all of us.

This department is all yours, and the job of running it and making it
interesting is largely up to you. So "come over in 'The Readers'
Corner'" and have your share in what everyone will be saying.

                                                       --_The Editor._


"_And Kind to Their Grandmothers!_"


  Dear Editor:

  I received a pleasant surprise a few days ago when I found a new
  Science Fiction magazine at the newsstand--Astounding Stories. And
  I was still more pleased, and surprised, to find that the Editor
  seems to know that such stories should have real story interest,
  besides a scientific idea.

  Of course I took with a grain of salt the invitation to write to
  the editor and give my preference of the kind of stories I like. I
  know that every editor, down in his heart, thinks his magazine is
  perfect "as is." In fact, praise is what they want, not
  suggestions, judging by the letters they print.

  Well, I can conscientiously give you some praise. If Astounding
  Stories keep up to the standard of the first issue it will be all
  right. Evidently you can afford to hire the best writers
  obtainable. Notice you've signed up some of my favorites, Murray
  Leinster, R. F. Starzl, Ray Cummings. I like their stuff because it
  has the rare quality rather vaguely described as "distinction,"
  which make the story remembered for a long time.

  The story "Tanks," by Murray Leinster, is my idea of what such a
  story should be. The author does not start out, "Listen, my
  children, and you shall hear a story so wonderful you won't believe
  it. Only after the death of Professor Bulging Dome do I dare to
  make it public to a doubting world." No, he simply proceeds to tell
  the story. If I were reading it in the Saturday Evening Post or
  Ladies Home Journal it would be all right to prepare me for the
  story by explaining that of course the author does not vouch for
  the story, it having been told to him by a crazy Eurasian in a
  Cottage Grove black-and-tan speakeasy at 3.30 A. M. In Astounding
  Stories I expect the story to be unusual, so don't bother telling
  me it is so. That criticism applies to "Phantoms of Reality," which
  is a story above the average, though, despite its rather flat title
  and slow beginning.

  Here's another good point about "Tanks." Its characters are human.
  Some authors of stories of the future make their characters all
  brains--cold monsters, with no humanity in them. Such a story has
  neither human interest nor plausibility. The sky's the limit, I
  say, for mechanical or scientific accomplishments, but human
  emotions will be the same a thousand years from now. And even
  supposing that they will be changed, your readers have present day
  emotions. The magazine can not prosper unless those present-day
  emotions are aroused and mirrored by thoroughly human characters.
  The situation may be just as outre as you like--the more unusual
  the better--but it is the response of normal human emotions to most
  unusual situations that gives a magazine such as yours its powerful
  and unique "kick."

  The response of the two infantrymen in "Tanks" to the strange and
  terrifying new warfare of the future exemplifies another point I
  would like to make--the fact that no matter what marvels the future
  may bring, the people who will live then will take them in a
  matter-of-fact way. Their conversation will be cigarettes,
  "sag-paste," drinks, women. References to the scientific marvels
  around them will be casual and sketchy. How many million words of
  an average car owner's conversation would you have to report to
  give a visitor from 1700 an idea of internal combustion engines?
  The author, if skillful, can convey that information in other ways.
  Yet a lot of stories printed have long, stilted conversations in
  which the author thinks he is conveying in an entertaining way his
  foundation situation. Personally, I like a lot of physical
  action--violent action preferred. This is so, probably, because I'm
  a school teacher and sedentary in my habits. I have never written a
  story in my life, but I'm the most voracious consumer of stories in
  Chicago. I like to see the hero get into a devil of a pickle, and
  to have him smash his way out. I like 'em big, tough, and kind to
  their grandmothers.

  It seems to me that interplanetary stories offer the best vehicle
  for all the desirable qualities herein enumerated combined. There
  is absolutely no restraint on the imagination, except a few known
  astronomical facts--plenty of opportunity for violent and dangerous
  adventures, strange and terrestrially impossible monsters. The
  human actors, set down in the midst of such terrifying conditions,
  which they battle dauntlessly, grinning as they take their blows
  and returning them with good will, cannot fail to rouse the
  admiration of the reader. And make him buy the next month's issue.


  But spare us, please the stories in which the hero, arriving on
  some other planet, is admitted to the court of the king of the
  White race, and leads their battles against the Reds, the Browns,
  the Greens, and so on, eventually marrying the king's daughter, who
  is always golden-haired, of milky white complexion, and has large
  blue eyes. Kindly reject stories of interplanetary travel in which
  a member of the party turns against the Earth party and allies
  himself with the wormlike Moon men, or what have you. Stories in
  which a great inventor gone crazy threatens to hurl the Earth into
  the Sun leave me cold and despondent, for the simple reason that
  crazy men are never great inventors. Name a great inventor who
  wasn't perfectly sane, if you can. The author makes the great
  inventor insane to make it plausible that he should want to destroy
  the World. Well, if he is a good author he can find some other
  motive.

  One more thing. I like to smell, feel, hear and even taste the
  action of a story as well as see it. Some authors only let you see
  it, and then they don't tell you whether it's in bright or subdued
  light. The author of "Tanks" fulfills my requirements in this
  respect, at least partially.--Walter Boyle, c/o Mrs. Anna Treitz,
  4751 North Artesian, Chicago, Ill.


_A Permanent Reader_


  Dear Editor:

  I want to thank you for the very entertaining hours I spent
  perusing your new magazine, Astounding Stories. I read one or two
  other Science Fiction magazines--it seems that tales of this sort
  intrigue me. However, I wish to say that the debut number of your
  magazine contained the best stories I ever read. Again thanking you
  and assuring you that should the stories continue thus I will be a
  permanent reader--Irving E. Ettinger, The Seville, Detroit, Mich.


_We're Avoiding Reprints_


  Dear Editor:

  I am well pleased with your new magazine and wish to offer you my
  congratulations and best wishes. As I am well acquainted with most
  of the Science Fiction now being written, I am in a good position
  to criticize your magazine.

  First: The cover illustration is good, but the inside drawings
  could be greatly improved.

  Second: Holding the magazine together with two staples is a good
  idea.

  Third: The paper could be improved.

  Fourth: The price is right.

  Here I classify the stories. Excellent: "The Beetle Horde," and
  "Tanks." Very Good: "Cave of Horror," "Invisible Death," and
  "Phantoms of Reality." Medium: "Compensation." Poor: "Stolen Mind."

  Please don't reprint any of Poe's, Wells', or Verne's works. My
  prejudice to Verne, Wells and Poe is that I have read all their
  works in other magazines.

  However, with all my criticizing, I think that your magazine is a
  good one.--James Nichols, 1509 19th Street, Bakersfield,
  California.


_Thanks, Mr. Marks!_


  Dear Editor:

  I purchased a copy of "our" new magazine to-day and I think it
  excellent. I am glad to see most of my old author friends
  contributing for it, but how about looking up E. R. Burroughs,
  David H. Keller, M. D., C. P. Wantenbacker and A. Merritt? They are
  marvelous writers. I see Wesso did your cover and it is very good.
  I have been a reader of four other Science Fiction monthly
  magazines and two quarterlies, but I gladly take this one into my
  fold and I think I speak for every other Science Fiction lover when
  I say this. Which means, if true, that your publication will have
  everlasting success. Here's hoping!--P. O. Marks, Jr., 893 York
  Avenue, S. W., Atlanta, Ga.


_A Fine Letter_


  Dear Editor:

  Having read through the first number of Astounding Stories, my
  enthusiasm has reached such a pitch that I find it difficult to
  express myself adequately. A mere letter such as this can give
  scarcely an inkling of the unbounded enjoyment I derive from the
  pages of this unique magazine. To use a trite but appropriate
  phrase, "It fills a long-felt need." True, there are other
  magazines which specialize in Science Fiction; but, to my mind they
  are not in a class with Astounding Stories. In most of them the
  scientific element is so emphasized that it completely overshadows
  all else. In this magazine, happily, such is not the case. Here we
  find science subordinated to human interest, which is as it should
  be. The love element, too, is present and by no means unwelcome.

  As for the literary quality of the stories, it could not be
  improved on. Such craftsmen as Cummings, Leinster and Rousseau
  never fail to turn out a vivid, well-written tale. If the stories in
  the succeeding issues are on a par with those in the first, the
  success of the magazine is assured.

  By the way, your editorial explanation of Astounding Stories was a
  gem. So many of us take our marvelous modern inventions for granted
  that we never consider how miraculous they would seem to our
  forebears. As you say, the only real difference between the
  Astounding and the Commonplace is Time. A magazine such as
  Astounding Stories enables us to anticipate the wonders of
  To-morrow. Through its pages we can peer into the vistas of the
  future and behold the world that is to be. Truly, you have given us
  a rare treat--Allen Glasser, 931 Forest Ave., New York, N. Y.


_The Science Correspondence Club Broadcasts_


  Dear Editor:

  The other day I came upon Astounding Stories on our local
  newsstand. I immediately procured a copy because Science Fiction
  is my favorite pastime, so to speak. I was very much overjoyed that
  another good Science Fiction magazine should come out, and a
  Clayton Magazine too, which enhances its splendid value still
  further. I have read various members of the Clayton family and I
  found each of them entertaining.

  After finishing the first issue, I decided to write in and express
  my feelings. The stories were all good with the exception of "The
  Stolen Mind." Just keep printing stories by Cape, Meek, Ray
  Cummings, Murray Leinster, C. V. Tench, Harl Vincent and R. F.
  Starzl and I can predict now that your new venture will be a huge
  success.

  The main reason of this letter is to ask your help in putting over
  Science Fiction Week. This will take place in the early part of
  February, the week of the 5th or after. We want your co-operation
  in making this a big success. You can help by running the attached
  article upon the Science Correspondence Club in your "Readers'
  Corner." It will be a big aid.

  I am sure, because you are the Editor of Astounding Stories, that
  you will be pleased to help us in this venture. Science Fiction is
  our common meeting ground and our common ideal.

  I hope to have a Big Science Fiction Week with your help.--Conrad
  H. Ruppert, 113 North Superior Street, Angola, Indiana.


  To the Readers of Astounding Stories:

  At the present there exists in the United States an organization
  the purpose of which is to spread the gospel of Science and Science
  Fiction, the Science Correspondence Club. I am writing this to
  induce the readers of Astounding Stories to join us. After reading
  this pick up your pen or take the cover from your typewriter and
  send in an application for membership to our Secretary, Raymond A.
  Palmer, 1431-38th St., Milwaukee, Wisconsin, or to our President,
  Aubrey Clements, 6 South Hillard St., Montgomery, Alabama. They
  will forward application blanks to you and you will belong to the
  only organization in the world that is like it.

  The Club was formed by twenty young men from all over the U. S. We
  have a roll of almost 100, all over the world. Its expressed
  purpose has been to help the cause of Science Fiction, and to
  increase the knowledge of Science. It also affords the advantage of
  being able to express your ideas in all fields.

  The Preamble of the Constitution which we have worked out reads:
  "We, the members of this organization, in order to promote the
  advancement of Science in general among laymen of the world through
  the use of discussion and the creation and exchange of new ideas,
  do ordain and establish this organization for the Science
  Correspondence Club."

  Article Two reads: "The institution will remain an organization to
  establish better co-ordination between the scientifically inclined
  laymen of the world, regardless of sex, creed, color, or race.
  There will be no restrictions as to age, providing the member can
  pass an examination which shall be prepared by the membership
  committee."

  The Club will also publish a monthly bulletin, to which members may
  contribute. It will also publish clippings, articles, etc., dealing
  with science.

  The membership will have no definite limit and the correspondence
  will be governed by the wishes of each member.

  Need more be said?

  I almost forgot to say that we have two of the best Science Fiction
  authors as active members, and three more who are doing their best,
  but because of such work they cannot be active.

  I hope my appeal bears fruit and that we shall hear from you
  soon.--Conrad H. Ruppert.


_But--Most Everybody Prefers the Smaller Size--and Price!_


  Dear Editor:

  Last night I was passing a newsstand and saw your magazine. I
  bought it then and there. I do not read any other stories except
  the fantastic stories. Astounding Stories looks all right, but may
  I make a suggestions? Why not increase the size of the magazine to
  that of Miss 1900 or Forest and Stream? It would certainly look
  better! You could also raise your price to twenty-five cents.
  Please print as many stories as possible by the following authors:
  Ray Cummings, Edgar Rice Burroughs, Murray Leinster, Edmond
  Hamilton, A. Hyatt Verrill, Stanton A. Coblentz, Ed Earl Repp and
  Harl Vincent.

  My favorite type of story is the interplanetary one. I wish you the
  best of luck in your new venture.--Stephen Takacs, 303 Eckford
  Street, Brooklyn, N. Y.


"_First Copy Wonderful_"


  Dear Editor:

  I have read the first copy of Astounding Stories and think it
  wonderful. I am very much interested in science fiction. I prefer
  interplanetary stories and would like to see many of them in the
  new magazine. Your authors are fine. The ones I like particularly
  are Ray Cummings, Captain S. P. Meek, and Murray Leinster. I wonder
  if I could subscribe to Astounding Stories? Will you let me know?
  Good luck to the new magazine.--Donald Sisler, 3111 Adams Mill
  Road, Washington, D. C.


_Congratulations_


  Dear Editor:

  Allow me to congratulate you upon the starting of your new
  magazine, Astounding Stories. Have just finished reading the first
  issue and it is fine. While the class of stories that you publish
  do not appeal to all, I feel quite sure that there are many like
  myself who will welcome your publication and wish it all
  success.--R. E. Norton, P. O. Box 226, Ashtabula, Ohio.











                              ASTOUNDING

                               STORIES

                           OF SUPER-SCIENCE

                                 20Â¢



              _On Sale the First Thursday of Each Month_


W. M. CLAYTON, Publisher HARRY BATES, Editor DR. DOUGLAS M. DOLD,
Consulting Editor


The Clayton Standard on a Magazine Guarantees

     _That_ the stories therein are clean, interesting, vivid, by
     leading writers of the day and purchased under conditions
     approved by the Authors' League of America;

     _That_ such magazines are manufactured in Union shops by
     American workmen;

     _That_ each newsdealer and agent is insured a fair profit;

     _That_ an intelligent censorship guards their advertising
     pages.

_The other Clayton magazines are_:

ACE-HIGH MAGAZINE, RANCH ROMANCES, COWBOY STORIES, CLUES, FIVE-NOVELS
MONTHLY, ALL STAR DETECTIVE STORIES, RANGELAND LOVE STORY
MAGAZINE, and WESTERN ADVENTURES.

_More than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand
for Clayton Magazines._

       *       *       *       *       *




VOL. III, No. 2 CONTENTS AUGUST, 1930


COVER DESIGN      H. W. WESSOLOWSKI
    _Painted in Water-colors from a Scene in "The Planet of Dread."_

THE PLANET OF DREAD      R. F. STARZL           147
    _A Stupid Blunder--and Mark Forepaugh Faces a Lifetime of Castaway
     Loneliness in the Savage Welter of the Planet Inra's Monster-ridden
     Jungles._

THE LORD OF SPACE        VICTOR ROUSSEAU        158
    _A Black Caesar Had Arisen on Eros--and All Earth Trembled at His
     Distant Menace._

THE SECOND SATELLITE     EDMOND HAMILTON        175
    _Earth-men War on Frog-vampires for the Emancipation of the Human Cows
     of Earth's Second Satellite._ (A Novelet.)

SILVER DOME              HARL VINCENT           192
    _In Her Deep-buried Kingdom of Theros, Phaestra Reveals the Amazing
     Secret of the Silver Dome._

EARTH, THE MARAUDER      ARTHUR J. BURKS        210
    _Deep in the Gnome-infested Tunnels of the Moon, Sarka and Jaska Are
     Brought to Luar the Radiant Goddess Against Whose Minions the
     Marauding Earth Had Struck in Vain._  (Part Two of a Three-Part
     Novel.)

MURDER MADNESS           MURRAY LEINSTER        237
    _Bell Has Fought through Tremendous Obstacles to Find and Kill The
     Master, Whose Diabolical Poison Makes Murder-mad Snakes of the Hands;
     and, as He Faces the Monster at Last--His Own Hands Start to Writhe!_
     (Conclusion.)

THE FLYING CITY          H. THOMPSON RICH       260
    _From Space Came Cor's Disc-city of Vada--Its Mighty, Age-old Engines
     Weakening--Its Horde of Dwarfs Hungry for the Earth!_

THE READERS' CORNER      ALL OF US              279
    _A Meeting Place for Readers of Astounding Stories._

       *       *       *       *       *

Single Copies, 20 Cents (In Canada, 25 Cents) Yearly Subscription,
$2.00

Issued monthly by Publishers' Fiscal Corporation, 80 Lafayette St.,
New York, N. Y. W. M. Clayton, President; Nathan Goldmann, Secretary.
Entered as second-class matter December 7, 1929, at the Post Office at
New York, N. Y., under Act of March 3, 1879. Title registered as a
Trade Mark in the U. S. Patent Office. Member Newsstand Group--Men's
List. For advertising rates address E. R. Crowe & Co., Inc., 25
Vanderbilt Ave., New York; or 225 North Michigan Ave., Chicago.

       *       *       *       *       *




The Planet of Dread

_By R. F. Starzl_

[Illustration: _This time Forepaugh was ready for it._]

[Sidenote: A stupid blunder--and Mark Forepaugh faces a life of
castaway loneliness in the savage welter of the planet Inra's
monster-ridden jungles.]


There was no use hiding from the truth. Somebody had blundered--a
fatal blunder--and they were going to pay for it! Mark Forepaugh
kicked the pile of hydrogen cylinders. Only a moment ago he had broken
the seals--the mendacious seals that certified to the world that the
flasks were fully charged. And the flasks were empty! The supply of
this precious power gas, which in an emergency should have been
sufficient for six years, simply did not exist.

He walked over to the integrating machine, which as early as the year
2031 had begun to replace the older atomic processes, due to the
shortage of the radium series metals. It was bulky and heavy compared
to the atomic disintegrators, but it was much more economical and very
dependable. Dependable--provided some thick-headed stock clerk at a
terrestrial supply station did not check in empty hydrogen cylinders
instead of full ones. Forepaugh's unwonted curses brought a smile to
the stupid, good-natured face of his servant, Gunga--he who had been
banished for life from his native Mars for his impiety in closing his
single round eye during the sacred Ceremony of the Wells.

The Earth man was at this steaming hot, unhealthful trading station
under the very shadow of the South Pole of the minor planet Inra for
an entirely different reason. One of the most popular of his set on
the Earth, an athletic hero, he had fallen in love, and the devoutly
wished-for marriage was only prevented by lack of funds. The
opportunity to take charge of this richly paid, though dangerous,
outpost of civilization had been no sooner offered than taken. In
another week or two the relief ship was due to take him and his
valuable collection of exotic Inranian orchids back to the Earth, back
to a fat bonus, Constance, and an assured future.

It was a different young man who now stood tragically before the
useless power plant. His slim body was bowed, and his clean features
were drawn. Grimly he raked the cooling dust that had been forced in
the integrating chamber by the electronic rearrangement of the
original hydrogen atoms--finely powdered iron and silicon--the "ashes"
of the last tank of hydrogen.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gunga chuckled.

"What's the matter?" Forepaugh barked. "Going crazy already?"

"Me, haw! Me, haw! Me thinkin'," Gunga rumbled. "Haw! We got, haw!
plenty hydr'gen." He pointed to the low metal roof of the trading
station. Though it was well insulated against sound, the place
continually vibrated to the low murmur of the Inranian rains that fell
interminably through the perpetual polar day. It was a rain such as is
never seen on Earth, even in the tropics. It came in drops as large as
a man's fist. It came in streams. It came in large, shattering masses
that broke before they fell and filled the air with spray. There was
little wind, but the steady green downpour of water and the brilliant
continuous flashing of lightning shamed the dull soggy twilight
produced by the large, hot, but hidden sun.

"_Your_ idea of a joke!" Forepaugh growled in disgust. He understood
what Gunga's grim pleasantry referred to. There was indeed an
incalculable quantity of hydrogen at hand. If some means could be
found to separate the hydrogen atoms from the oxygen in the world of
water around them they would not lack for fuel. He thought of
electrolysis, and relaxed with a sigh. There was no power. The
generators were dead, the air drier and cooler had ceased its rhythmic
pulsing nearly an hour ago. Their lights were gone, and the automatic
radio utterly useless.

"This is what comes of putting all your eggs in one basket," he
thought, and let his mind dwell vindictively on the engineers who had
designed the equipment on which his life depended.

An exclamation from Gunga startled him. The Martian was pointing to
the ventilator opening, the only part of this strange building that
was not hermetically sealed against the hostile life of Inra. A dark
rim had appeared at its margin, a loathsome, black-green rim that was
moving, spreading out. It crept over the metal walls like the
low-lying smoke of a fire, yet it was a solid. From it emanated a
strong, miasmatic odor.

"The giant mold!" Forepaugh cried. He rushed to his desk and took out
his flash pistol, quickly set the localizer so as to cover a large
area. When he turned he saw, to his horror, Gunga about to smash into
the mold with his ax. He sent the man spinning with a blow to the ear.

"Want to scatter it and start it growing in a half-dozen places?" he
snapped. "Here!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He pulled the trigger. There was a light, spiteful "ping" and for an
instant a cone of white light stood out in the dim room like a solid
thing. Then it was gone, and with it was gone the black mold, leaving
a circular area of blistered paint on the wall and an acrid odor in
the air. Forepaugh leaped to the ventilating louver and closed it
tightly.

"It's going to be like this from now on," he remarked to the shaken
Gunga. "All these things wouldn't bother us as long as the machinery
kept the building dry and cool. They couldn't live in here. But it's
getting damp and hot. Look at the moisture condensing on the ceiling!"

Gunga gave a guttural cry of despair. "It knows, Boss; look!"

Through one of the round, heavily framed ports it could be seen, the
lower part of its large, shapeless body half-floating in the lashing
water that covered their rocky shelf to a depth of several feet, the
upper part spectral and gray. It was a giant amoeba, fully six feet in
diameter in its present spheroid form, but capable of assuming any
shape that would be useful. It had an envelope of tough, transparent
matter, and was filled with a fluid that was now cloudy and then
clear. Near the center there was a mass of darker matter, and this was
undoubtedly the seat of its intelligence.

The Earth man recoiled in horror! A single cell with a brain! It was
unthinkable. It was a biological nightmare. Never before had he seen
one--had, in fact, dismissed the stories of the Inranian natives as a
bit of primitive superstition, had laughed at these gentle, stupid
amphibians with whom he traded when they, in their imperfect language,
tried to tell him of it.

They had called it the Ul-lul. Well, let it be so. It was an amoeba,
and it was watching him. It floated in the downpour and watched him.
With what? It had no eyes. No matter, it was watching him. And then it
suddenly flowed outward until it became a disc rocking on the waves.
Again its fluid form changed, and by a series of elongations and
contractions it flowed through the water at an incredible speed. It
came straight for the window, struck the thick, unbreakable glass with
a shock that could be felt by the men inside. It flowed over the glass
and over the building. It was trying to eat them, building and all!
The part of its body over the port became so thin that it was almost
invisible. At last, its absolute limit reached, it dropped away,
baffled, vanishing amid the glare of the lightning and the frothing
waters like the shadows of a nightmare.

       *       *       *       *       *

The heat was intolerable and the air was bad.

"Haw, we have to open vent'lator, Boss!" gasped the Martian.

Forepaugh nodded grimly. It wouldn't do to smother either. Though to
open the ventilator would be to invite another invasion by the black
mold, not to mention the amoebae and other fabulous monsters that had
up to now been kept at a safe distance by the repeller zone, a simple
adaptation of a very old discovery. A zone of mechanical vibrations,
of a frequency of 500,000 cycles per second, was created by a large
quartz crystal in the water, which was electrically operated. Without
power, the protective zone had vanished.

"We watch?" asked Gunga.

"You bet we watch. Every minute of the 'day' and 'night.'"

He examined the two chronometers, assuring himself that they were well
wound, and congratulated himself that they were not dependent on the
defunct power plant for energy. They were his only means of measuring
the passage of time. The sun, which theoretically would seem to travel
round and round the horizon, rarely succeeded in making its exact
location known, but appeared to shift strangely from side to side at
the whim of the fog and water.

"Th' fellas," Gunga remarked, coming out of a study. "Why not come?"
He referred to the Inranians.

"Probably know something's wrong. They can tell the quartz oscillator
is stopped. Afraid of the Ul-lul, I suppose."

"'Squeer," demurred the Martian. "Ul-lul not bother fellas."

"You mean it doesn't follow them into the underbrush. But it would
find tough going there. Not enough water; trees there, four hundred
feet high with thorny roots and rough bark--they wouldn't like that.
Oh no, these natives ought to be pretty snug in their dens. Why,
they're as hard to catch as a muskrat! Don't know what a muskrat is,
huh? Well, it's the same as the Inranians, only different, and not so
ugly."

       *       *       *       *       *

For the next six days they existed in their straitened quarters, one
guarding while the other slept, but such alarms as they experienced
were of a minor nature, easily disposed of by their flash pistol. It
had not been intended for continuous service, and under the frequent
drains it showed an alarming loss of power. Forepaugh repeatedly
warned Gunga to be more sparing in its use, but that worthy persisted
in his practice of using it against every trifling invasion of the
poisonous Inranian cave moss that threatened them, or the warm, soggy
water-spiders that hopefully explored the ventilator shaft in search
of living food.

"Bash 'em with a broom, or something! Never mind if it isn't nice.
Save our flash gun for something bigger."

Gunga only looked distressed.

On the seventh day their position became untenable. Some kind of sea
creature, hidden under the ever-replenished storm waters, had found
the concrete emplacements of their trading post to its liking. Just
how it was done was never learned. It is doubtful that the creatures
could gnaw away the solid stone--more likely the process was chemical,
but none the less it was effective. The foundations crumbled; the
metal shell subsided, rolled half over so that silty water leaked in
through the straining seams, and threatened at any moment to be
buffeted and urged away on the surface of the flood toward that
distant vast sea which covers nine-tenths of the area of Inra.

"Time to mush for the mountains," Forepaugh decided.

Gunga grinned. The Mountains of Perdition were, to his point of view,
the only part of Inra even remotely inhabitable. They were sometimes
fairly cool, and though perpetually pelted with rain, blazing with
lightning and reverberating with thunder, they had caves that were
fairly dry and too cool for the black mold. Sometimes, under favorable
circumstances on their rugged peaks, one could get the full benefit of
the enormous hot sun for whose actinic rays the Martian's starved
system yearned.

"Better pack a few cans of the food tablets," the white man ordered.
"Take a couple of waterproof sleeping bags for us, and a few hundred
fire pellets. You can have the flash pistol; it may have a few more
charges in it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Forepaugh broke the glass case marked "Emergency Only" and removed two
more flash pistols. Well he knew that he would need them after passing
beyond the trading area--perhaps sooner. His eyes fell on his personal
chest, and he opened it for a brief examination. None of the contents
seemed of any value, and he was about to pass when he dragged out a
long, heavy, .45 caliber six-shooter in a holster, and a cartridge
belt filled with shells. The Martian stared.

"Know what it is?" his master asked, handing him the weapon.

"Gunga not know." He took it and examined it curiously. It was a fine
museum piece in an excellent state of preservation, the metal overlaid
with the patina of age, but free from rust and corrosion.

"It's a weapon of the Ancients," Forepaugh explained. "It was a sort
of family heirloom and is over 300 years old. One of my grandfathers
used it in the famous Northwest Mounted Police. Wonder if it'll still
shoot."

He leveled the weapon at a fat, sightless wriggler that came squirming
through a seam, squinting unaccustomed eyes along the barrel. There
was a violent explosion, and the wriggler disappeared in a smear of
dirty green. Gunga nearly fell over backward in fright, and even
Forepaugh was shaken. He was surprised that the ancient cartridge had
exploded at all, though he knew powder making had reached a high level
of perfection before explosive chemical weapons had yielded to the
newer, lighter, and infinitely more powerful ray weapons. The gun
would impede their progress. It would be of very little use against
the giant Carnivora of Inra. Yet something--perhaps a sentimental
attachment, perhaps what his ancestors would have called a
"hunch"--compelled him to strap it around his waist. He carefully
packed a few essentials in his knapsack, together with one chronometer
and a tiny gyroscopic compass. So equipped, they could travel with a
fair degree of precision toward the mountains some hundred miles on
the other side of a steaming forest, a-crawl with feral life, and hot
with blood-lust.

       *       *       *       *       *

Man and master descended into the warm waters and, without a backward
glance, left the trading post to its fate. There was not even any use
in leaving a note. Their relief ship, soon due, would never find the
station without radio direction.

The current was strong, but the water gradually became shallower as
they ascended the sloping rock. After half an hour they saw ahead of
them the loom of the forest, and with some trepidation they entered
the gloom cast by the towering, fernlike trees, whose tops disappeared
in murky fog. Tangled vines impeded their progress. Quagmires lay in
wait for them, and tough weeds tripped them, sometimes throwing one or
another into the mud among squirming small reptiles that lashed at
them with spiked, poisonous feet and then fell to pieces, each piece
to lie in the bubbling ooze until it grew again into a whole animal.

Several times they almost walked under the bodies of great,
spheroidal creatures with massive short legs, whose tremendously long,
sinuous necks disappeared in the leafy murk above, swaying gently like
long-stalked lilies in a terrestial pond. These were azornacks,
mild-tempered vegetarians whose only defense lay in their thick,
blubbery hides. Filled with parasites, stinking and rancid, their
decaying covering of fat effectively concealed the tender flesh
underneath, protecting them from fangs and rending claws.

Deeper in the forest the battering of the rain was mitigated. Giant
neo-palm leaves formed a roof that shut out not only most of the weak
daylight, but also the fury of the downpour. The water collected in
cataracts, ran down the boles of the trees, and roared through the
semi-circular canals of the snake trees, so named by early explorers
for their waving, rubbery tentacles, multiplied a millionfold, that
performed the duties of leaves. Water gurgled and chuckled everywhere,
spread in vast dim ponds and lakes writhing with tormented roots,
up-heaved by unseen, uncatalogued leviathans, rippled by translucent
discs of loathsome, luminescent jelly that quivered from place to
place in pursuit of microscopic prey.

Yet the impression was one of calm and quiet, and the waifs from other
worlds felt a surcease of nervous tension. Unconsciously they relaxed.
Taking their bearings, they changed their course slightly for the
nesting place of the nearest tribe of Inranians where they hoped to
get food and at least partial shelter; for their food tablets had
mysteriously turned to an unpleasant viscous liquid, and their
sleeping bags were alive with giant bacteria easily visible to the
eye.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were doomed to disappointment. After nearly twelve hours of
desperate struggling through the morass, through gloomy aisles, and
countless narrow escapes from prowling beasts of prey in which only
the speed and tremendous power of their flash pistols saved them from
instant death, they reached a rocky outcropping which led to the
comparatively dry rise of land on which a tribe of Inranians made its
home. Their faces were covered with welts made by the hanging
filaments of blood-sucking trees as fine as spider webs, and their
senses reeled with the oppressive stench of the abysmal jungle. If the
pampered ladies of the Inner Planets only knew where their
thousand-dollar orchids sprang from!

Converging runways showed the opening of one of the underground dens,
almost hidden from view by a bewildering maze of roots, rendered more
formidable by long, sharp stakes made from the iron-hard thigh-bones
of the flying kabo.

Forepaugh cupped his hands over his mouth and gave the call.

"Ouf! Ouf! Ouf! Ouf! Ouf!"

He repeated it over and over, the jungle giving back his voice in a
muffled echo, while Gunga held a spare flash pistol and kept a sharp
lookout for a carnivore intent on getting an unwary Inranian.

There was no answer. These timid creatures, who are often rated the
most intelligent life native to primitive Inra, had sensed disaster
and had fled.

Forepaugh and Gunga slept in one of the foul, poorly ventilated dens,
ate of the hard, woody tubers that had not been worth taking along,
and wished they had a certain stock clerk at that place at that time.
They were awakened out of deep slumber by the threshing of an evil
looking creature which had become entangled among the sharpened
spikes. Its tremendous maw, splitting it almost in half, was opened in
roars of pain that showed great yellow fangs eight inches in length.
Its heavy flippers battered the stout roots and lacerated themselves
in the beast's insensate rage. It was quickly dispatched with a flash
pistol and Gunga cooked himself some of the meat, using a fire pellet;
but despite his hunger Forepaugh did not dare eat any of it, knowing
that this species, strange to him, might easily be one of the many on
Inra that are poisonous to terrestials.

       *       *       *       *       *

They resumed their march toward the distant invisible mountains, and
were fortunate in finding somewhat better footing than they had on
their previous march. They covered about 25 miles on that "day,"
without untoward incident. Their ray pistols gave them on insuperable
advantage over the largest and most ferocious beasts they could expect
to meet, so that they became more and more confident, despite the
knowledge that they were rapidly using up the energy stored in their
weapons. The first one had long ago been discarded, and the charge
indicators of the other two were approaching zero at a disquieting
rate. Forepaugh took them both, and from that time on he was careful
never to waste a discharge except in case of a direct and unavoidable
attack. This often entailed long waits or stealthy detours through
sucking mud, and came near to ending both their lives.

The Earth man was in the lead when it happened. Seeking an uncertain
footing through a tangle of low-growing, thick, ghastly white
vegetation, he placed a foot on what seemed to be a broad, flat rock
projecting slightly above the ooze. Instantly there was a violent
upheaval of mud; the seeming rock flew up like a trap-door, disclosing
a cavernous mouth some seven feet across, and a thick, triangular
tentacle flew up from its concealment in the mud in a vicious arc.
Forepaugh leaped back barely in time to escape being swept in and
engulfed. The end of the tentacle struck him a heavy blow on the
chest, throwing him back with such force as to bowl Gunga over, and
whirling the pistols out of his hands into a slimy, bulbous growth
nearby, where they stuck in the phosphorescent cavities the force of
their impact had made.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no time to recover the weapons. With a bellow of rage the
beast was out of its bed and rushing at them. Nothing stayed its
progress. Tough, heavily scaled trees thicker than a man's body
shuddered and fell as its bulk brushed by them. But it was momentarily
confused, and its first rush carried it past its dodging quarry. This
momentary respite saved their lives.

Rearing its plumed head to awesome heights, its knobby bark running
with brown rivulets of water, a giant tree, even for that world of
giants, offered refuge. The men scrambled up the rough trunk easily,
finding plenty of hand and footholds. They came to rest on one of the
shelflike circumvoluting rings, some twenty-five feet above the
ground. Soon the blunt brown tentacles slithered in search of them,
but failed to reach their refuge by inches.

And now began the most terrible siege that interlopers in that
primitive world can endure. From that cavernous, distended throat came
a tremendous, world-shaking noise.

"HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM!"

Forepaugh put his hand to his head. It made him dizzy. He had not
believed that such noise could be. He knew that no creature could long
live amidst it. He tore strips from his shredded clothing and stuffed
his ears, but felt no relief.

"HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM!"

It throbbed in his brain.

Gunga lay a-sprawl, staring with fascinated eye into the pulsating
scarlet gullet that was blasting the world with sound. Slowly, slowly
he was slipping. His master hauled him back. The Martian grinned at
him stupidly, slid again to the edge.

Once more Forepaugh pulled him back. The Martian seemed to acquiesce.
His single eye closed to a mere slit. He moved to a position between
Forepaugh and the tree trunk, braced his feet.

"No you don't!" The Earth man laughed uproariously. The din was making
him light-headed. It was so funny! Just in time he had caught that
cunning expression and prepared for the outlashing of feet designed to
plunge him into the red cavern below and to stop that hellish racket.

"And now--"

He swung his fist heavily, slamming the Martian against the tree. The
red eye closed wearily. He was unconscious, and lucky.

Hungrily the Earth man stared at his distant flash pistols, plainly
visible in the luminescence of their fungus bedding. He began a slow,
cautious creep along the top of a vine some eight inches thick. If he
could reach them....

       *       *       *       *       *

Crash! He was almost knocked to the ground by the thud of a frantic
tentacle against the vine. His movement had been seen. Again the
tentacle struck with crushing force. The great vine swayed. He managed
to reach the shelf again in the very nick of time.

"HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM!"

A bolt of lightning struck a giant fern some distance away. The crash
of thunder was hardly noticeable. Forepaugh wondered if his tree would
be struck. Perhaps it might even start a fire, giving him a flaming
brand with which to torment his tormentor. Vain hope! The wood was
saturated with moisture. Even the fire pellets could not make it burn.

"HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM!"

The six-shooter! He had forgotten it. He jerked it from its holster
and pointed it at the red throat, emptied all the chambers. He saw the
flash of yellow flame, felt the recoil, but the sound of the
discharges was drowned in the Brobdignagian tumult. He drew back his
arm to throw the useless toy from him. But again that unexplainable,
senseless "hunch" restrained him. He reloaded the gun and returned it
to its holster.

"HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM! HOOM!"

A thought had been struggling to reach his consciousness against the
pressure of the unbearable noise. The fire pellets! Couldn't they be
used in some way? These small chemical spheres, no larger than the end
of his little finger, had long ago supplanted actual fire along the
frontiers, where electricity was not available for cooking. In contact
with moisture they emitted terrific heat, a radiant heat which
penetrated meat, bone, and even metal. One such pellet would cook a
meal in ten minutes, with no sign of scorching or burning. And they
had several hundred in one of the standard moisture-proof containers.

       *       *       *       *       *

As fast as his fingers could work the trigger of the dispenser
Forepaugh dropped the potent little pellets down the bellowing throat.
He managed to release about thirty before the bellowing stopped. A
veritable tornado of energy broke loose at the foot of the tree. The
giant maw was closed, and the shocking silence was broken only by the
thrashing of a giant body in its death agonies. The radiant heat,
penetrating through and through the beast's body, withered nearby
vegetation and could be easily felt on the perch up the tree.

Gunga was slowly recovering. His iron constitution helped him to rally
from the powerful blow he had received, and by the time the jungle was
still he was sitting up mumbling apologies.

"Never mind," said his master. "Shin down there and cut us off a good
helping of roast tongue, if it has a tongue, before something else
comes along and beats us out of a feast."

"Him poison, maybe," Gunga demurred. They had killed a specimen new to
zoologists.

"Might as well die of poison as starvation," Forepaugh countered.

Without more ado the Martian descended, cut out some large, juicy
chunks as his fancy dictated, and brought his loot back up the tree.
The meat was delicious and apparently wholesome. They gorged
themselves and threw away what they could not eat, for food spoils
very quickly in the Inranian jungles and uneaten meat would only serve
to attract hordes of the gauzy-winged, glutinous Inranian swamp flies.
As they sank into slumber they could hear the beginning of a bedlam of
snarling and fighting as the lesser Carnivora fed on the body of the
fallen giant.

When they awoke the chronometer recorded the passing of twelve hours,
and they had to tear a network of strong fibers with which the tree
had invested them preparatory to absorbing their bodies as food. For
so keen is the competition for life on Inra that practically all
vegetation is capable of absorbing animal food directly. Many an
Inranian explorer can tell tales of narrow escapes from some of the
more specialized flesh-eating plants; but they are now so well known
that they are easily avoided.

       *       *       *       *       *

A clean-picked framework of crushed and broken giant bones was all
that was left of the late bellowing monster. Six-legged water dogs
were polishing them hopefully, or delving into them with their long,
sinuous snouts for the marrow. The Earth man fired a few shots with
his six-shooter, and they scattered, dragging the bodies of their
fallen companions to a safe distance to be eaten.

Only one of the flash pistols was in working order. The other had been
trampled by heavy hoofs and was useless. A heavy handicap under which
to traverse fifty miles of abysmal jungle. They started with nothing
for breakfast except water, of which they had plenty.

Fortunately the outcroppings of rocks and gravel washes were becoming
more and more frequent, and they were able to travel at much better
speed. As they left the low-lying jungle land they entered a zone
which was faintly reminiscent of a terrestial jungle. It was still
hot, soggy, and fetid, but gradually the most primitive aspects of the
scene were modified. The over-arching trees were less closely packed,
and they came across occasional rock clearings which were bare of
vegetation except for a dense carpet of brown, lichenlike vegetation
that secreted an astonishing amount of juice. They slipped and sloshed
through this, rousing swarms of odd, toothed birds, which darted
angrily around their heads and slashed at them with the razor-sharp
saw edges on the back of their legs. Annoying as they were, they could
be kept away with branches torn from trees, and their presence
connoted an absence of the deadly jungle flesh-eaters, permitting a
temporary relaxation of vigilance and saving the resources of the last
flash gun.

They camped that "night" on the edge of one of these rock clearings.
For the first time in weeks it had stopped raining, although the sun
was still obscured. Dimly on the horizon could be seen the first of
the foothills. Here they gathered some of the giant, oblong fungus
that early explorers had taken for blocks of porous stone because of
their size and weight, and, by dint of the plentiful application of
fire pellets, managed to set it ablaze. The heat added nothing to
their comfort, but it dried them out and allowed them to sleep
unmolested.

       *       *       *       *       *

An unwary winged eel served as their breakfast, and soon they were on
their way to those beckoning hills. It had started to rain again, but
the worst part of their journey was over. If they could reach the top
of one of the mountains there was a good chance that they would be
seen and rescued by their relief ship, provided they did not starve
first. The flyer would use the mountains as a base from which to
search for the trading station, and it was conceivable that the
skipper might actually have anticipated their desperate adventure and
would look for them in the Mountains of Perdition.

They had crossed several ranges of the foothills and were beginning to
congratulate themselves when the diffused light from above was
suddenly blotted out. It was raining again, and above the
echo-augmented thunder they heard a shrill screeching.

"A web serpent!" Gunga cried, throwing himself flat on the ground.

Forepaugh eased into a rock cleft at his side. Just in time. A great
grotesque head bore down upon him, many-fanged as a medieval dragon.
Between obsidian eyes was a fissure whence emanated a wailing and a
foul odor. Hundreds of short, clawed legs slithered on the rocks under
a long sinuous body. Then it seemed to leap into the air again. Webs
grew taut between the legs, strumming as they caught a strong uphill
wind. Again it turned to the attack, and missed them. This time
Forepaugh was ready for it. He shot at it with his flash pistol.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing happened. The fog made accurate shooting impossible, and the
gun lacked its former power. The web serpent continued to course back
and forth over their heads.

"Guess we'd better run for it," Forepaugh murmured.

"Go 'head!"

They cautiously left their places of concealment. Instantly the
serpent was down again, persistent if inaccurate. It struck the place
of their first concealment and missed them.

"Run!"

They extended their weary muscles to the utmost, but it was soon
apparent that they could not escape long. A rock wall in their path
saved them.

"Hole!" the Martian gasped.

Forepaugh followed him into the rocky cleft. There was a strong draft
of dry air, and it would have been next to impossible to hold the
Martian back, so Forepaugh allowed him to lead on toward the source of
the draft. As long as it led into the mountains he didn't care.

The natural passageway was untenanted. Evidently its coolness and
dryness made it untenable for most of Inra's humidity and heat loving
life. Yet the floor was so smooth that it must have been artificially
leveled. Faint illumination was provided by the rocks themselves. They
appeared to be covered by some microscopic phosphorescent vegetation.

After hundreds of twists and turns and interminable straight galleries
the cleft turned more sharply upward, and they had a period of stiff
climbing. They must have gone several miles and climbed at least
20,000 feet. The air became noticeably thin, which only exhilarated
Gunga, but slowed the Earth man down. But at last they came to the end
of the cleft. They could go no further, but above them, at least 500
feet higher, they saw a round patch of sky, miraculously bright blue
sky!

"A pipe!" Forepaugh cried.

He had often heard of these mysterious, almost fabulous structures
sometimes reported by passing travelers. Straight and true, smooth as
glass and apparently immune to the elements, they had been
occasionally seen standing on the very tops of the highest
mountains--seen for a few moments only before they were hidden again
by the clouds. Were they observatories of some ancient race, placed
thus to pierce the mysteries of outer space? They would find out.

       *       *       *       *       *

The inside of the pipe had zigzagging rings of metal, conveniently
spaced for easy climbing. With Gunga leading, they soon reached the
top. But not quite.

"Eh?" said Forepaugh.

"Uh?" said Gunga.

There had not been a sound, but a distinct, definite command had
registered on their minds.

"Stop!"

They tried to climb higher, but could not unclasp their hands. They
tried to descend, but could not lower their feet.

The light was by now relatively bright, and as by command their eyes
sought the opposite wall. What they saw gave their jaded nerves an
unpleasant thrill--a mass of doughy matter of a blue-green color about
three feet in diameter, with something that resembled a cyst filled
with transparent liquid near its center.

And this thing began to flow along the rods, much as tar flows. From
the mass extended a pseudopod; touched Gunga on the arm. Instantly the
arm was raw and bleeding. Terrified, immovable, he writhed in agony.
The pseudopod returned to the main mass, disappearing into its
interior with the strip of bloody skin.

Its attention was centered so much on the luckless Martian that its
control slipped from Forepaugh. Seizing his flash pistol, he set the
localized for a small area and aimed it at the thing, intent on
burning it into nothingness. But again his hand was stayed. Against
the utmost of his will-power his fingers opened, letting the pistol
drop. The liquid in the cyst danced and bubbled. Was it laughing at
him? It had read his mind--thwarted his will again.

Again a pseudopod stretched out and a strip of raw, red flesh adhered
to it and was consumed. Mad rage convulsed the Earth man. Should he
throw himself tooth and nail on the monster? And be engulfed?

He thought of the six-shooter. It thrilled him.

But wouldn't it make him drop that too?

       *       *       *       *       *

A flash of atavistic cunning came to him.

He began to reiterate in his mind a certain thought.

"This thing is so I can see you better--this thing is so I can see you
better."

He said it over and over, with all the passion and devotion of a
celibate's prayer over a uranium fountain.

"This thing is harmless--but it will make me see you better!"

Slowly he drew the six-shooter. In some occult way he knew it was
watching him.

"Oh, this is harmless! This is an instrument to aid my weak eyes! It
will help me realize your mastery! This will enable me to know your
true greatness. This will enable me to know you as a god."

Was it complacence or suspicion that stirred the liquid in the cyst so
smoothly? Was it susceptible to flattery? He sighted along the barrel.

"In another moment your great intelligence will overwhelm me,"
proclaimed his surface mind desperately, while the subconscious tensed
the trigger. And at that the clear liquid burst into a turmoil of
alarm. Too late. Forepaugh went limp, but not before he had loosed a
steel-jacketed bullet that shattered the mind cyst of the pipe
denizen. A horrible pain coursed through his every fibre and nerve. He
was safe in the arms of Gunga, being carried to the top of the pipe to
the clean dry air, and the blessed, blistering sun.

The pipe denizen was dying. A viscous, inert mass, it dropped lower
and lower, lost contact at last, shattered into slime at the bottom.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miraculous sun! For a luxurious fifteen minutes they roasted there on
the top of the pipe, the only solid thing in a sea of clouds as far as
the eye could reach. But no! That was a circular spot against the
brilliant white of the clouds, and it was rapidly coming closer. In a
few minutes it resolved itself into the _Comet_, fast relief ship of
the Terrestial, Inranian, Genidian, and Zydian Lines, Inc. With a low
buzz of her repulsion motors she drew alongside. Hooks were attached
and ports opened. A petty officer and a crew of roustabouts made her
fast.

"What the hell's going on here?" asked the cocky little terrestial who
was skipper, stepping out and surveying the castaways. "We've been
looking for you ever since your directional wave failed. But come on
in--come on in!"

He led the way to his stateroom, while the ship's surgeon took Gunga
in charge. Closing the door carefully, he delved into the bottom of
his locker and brought out a flask.

"Can't be too careful," he remarked, filling a small tumbler for
himself and another for his guest. "Always apt to be some snooper to
report me. But say--you're wanted in the radio room."

"Radio room nothing! When do we eat?"

"Right away, but you'd better see him. Fellow from the Interplanetary
News Agency wants you to broadcast a copyrighted story. Good for about
three years' salary, old boy."

"All right. I'll see him"--with a happy sigh--"just as soon as I put
through a personal message."

[Advertisement: Everyone Is Invited
_To "Come Over in_
'THE READERS' CORNER'!"]




The Lord of Space

_By Victor Rousseau_

[Illustration]

[Sidenote: A Black Caesar had arisen on Eros--and all Earth trembled
at his distant menace.]


"On the day of the next full moon every living thing on earth will be
wiped out of existence--unless you succeed in your mission, Lee."

Nathaniel Lee looked into the face of Silas Stark, President of the
United States of the World, and nodded grimly. "I'll do my best, Sir,"
he answered.

"You have the facts. We know who this self-styled Black Caesar is, who
has declared war upon humanity. He is a Dane named Axelson, whose
father, condemned to life imprisonment for resisting the new
world-order, succeeded in obtaining possession of an interplanetary
liner.

"He filled it with the gang of desperate men who had been associated
with him in his successful escape from the penitentiary. Together they
sailed into Space. They disappeared. It was supposed that they had
somehow met their death in the ether, beyond the range of human ken.

"Thirty years passed, and then this son of Axelson, born, according to
his own story, of a woman whom the father had persuaded to accompany
him into Space, began to radio us. We thought at first it was some
practical joker who was cutting in.

[Illustration: _It was like struggling with some vampire creatures in
a hideous dream._]

"When our electricians demonstrated beyond doubt that the voice came
from outer space, it was supposed that some one in our Moon Colony had
acquired a transmitting machine. Then the ships we sent to the Moon
Colony for gold failed to return. As you know, for seven weeks there
has been no communication with the Moon. And at the last full moon
the--blow--fell.

"The world depends upon you, Lee. The invisible rays that destroyed
every living thing from China to Australia--one-fifth of the human
race--will fall upon the eastern seaboard of America when the moon is
full again. That has been the gist of Axelson's repeated
communications.

"We shall look to you to return, either with the arch-enemy of the
human race as your prisoner, or with the good news that mankind has
been set free from the menace that overhangs it.

"God bless you, my boy!" The President of the United States of the
World gripped Nat's hand and stepped down the ladder that led from the
landing-stage of the great interplanetary space-ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

The immense landing-field reserved for the ships of the Interplanetary
Line was situated a thousand feet above the heart of New York City, in
Westchester County. It was a flat space set on the top of five great
towers, strewn with electrified sand, whose glow had the property of
dispersing the sea fogs. There, at rest upon what resembled nothing so
much as iron claws, the long gray shape of the vacuum flyer bulked.

Nat sneezed as he watched the operations of his men, for the common
cold, or coryza, seemed likely to be the last of the germ diseases
that would yield to medical science, and he had caught a bad one in
the Capitol, while listening to the debate in the Senate upon the
threat to humanity. And it was cold on the landing-stage, in contrast
to the perpetual summer of the glass-roofed city below.

But Nat forgot the cold as he watched the preparations for the ship's
departure. Neon and nitrogen gas were being pumped under pressure into
the outer shell, where a minute charge of leucon, the newly discovered
element that helped to counteract gravitation, combined with them to
provide the power that would lift the vessel above the regions of the
stratosphere.

In the low roof-buildings that surrounded the stage was a scene of
tremendous activity. The selenium discs were flashing signals, and the
radio receivers were shouting the late news; on the great power boards
dials and light signals stood out in the glow of the amylite tubes. On
a rotary stage a thousand feet above the ship a giant searchlight,
visible for a thousand miles, moved its shaft of dazzling luminosity
across the heavens.

Now the spar-aluminite outer skin of the ship grew bright with the red
neon glare. Another ship, from China, dropped slowly to its stage near
by, and the unloaders swarmed about the pneumatic tubes to receive the
mail. The teleradio was shouting news of a failure of the Manchurian
wheat crop. Nat's chief officer, a short cockney named Brent, came up
to him.

"Ready to start, Sir," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nat turned to him. "Your orders are clear?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Send Benson here."

"I'm here, Sir." Benson, the ray-gunner in charge of the battery that
comprised the vessel's armament, a lean Yankee from Connecticut,
stepped forward.

"You know your orders, Benson? Axelson has seized the Moon and the
gold-mines there. He's planning to obliterate the Earth. We've got to
go in like mad dogs and shoot to kill. No matter if we kill every
living thing there, even our own people who are inmates of the Moon's
penal settlement, we've got to account for Axelson."

"Yes, Sir."

"We can't guess how he got those gold-ships that returned with neon
and argon for the Moon colonists. But he mustn't get us. Let the men
understand that. That's all."

"Very good, Sir."

The teleradio suddenly began to splutter: A-A-A, it called. And
instantly every sound ceased about the landing-stage. For that was the
call of Axelson, somewhere upon the Moon.

"Axelson speaking. At the next full moon all the American Province of
the World Federation will be annihilated, as the Chinese Province was
at the last. There's no hope for you, good people. Send out your
vacuum liners. I can use a few more of them. Within six months your
world will be depopulated, unless you flash me the signal of
surrender."

Would the proud old Earth have to come to that? Daily those ominous
threats had been repeated, until popular fears had become frenzy. And
Nat was being sent out as a last hope. If he failed, there would be
nothing but surrender to this man, armed with a super-force that
enabled him to lay waste the Earth from the Moon.

Within one hour, those invisible, death-dealing rays had destroyed
everything that inhaled oxygen and exhaled carbon. The ray with which
the liner was equipped was a mere toy in comparison. It would kill at
no more than 500 miles, and its action was quite different.

As a prelude to Earth's surrender, Axelson demanded that World
President Stark and a score of other dignitaries should depart for
the Moon as hostages. Every ray fortress in the world was to be
dismantled, every treasury was to send its gold to be piled up in a
great pyramid on the New York landing-stage. The Earth was to
acknowledge Axelson as its supreme master.

       *       *       *       *       *

The iron claws were turning with a screwlike motion, extending
themselves, and slowly raising the interplanetary vessel until she
looked like a great metal fish with metal legs ending with suckerlike
disks. But already she was floating free as the softly purring engines
held her in equipoise. Nat climbed the short ladder that led to her
deck. Brent came up to him again.

"That teleradio message from Axelson--" he began.

"Yes?" Nat snapped out.

"I don't believe it came from the Moon at all."

"You don't? You think it's somebody playing a hoax on Earth? You think
that wiping out of China was just an Earth-joke?"

"No, Sir." Brent stood steady under his superior's sarcasm. "But I was
chief teleradio operator at Greenwich before being promoted to the
Province of America. And what they don't know at Greenwich they don't
know anywhere."

Brent spoke with that self-assurance of the born cockney that even the
centuries had failed to remove, though they had removed the cockney
accent.

"Well, Brent?"

"I was with the chief electrician in the receiving station when
Axelson was radioing last week. And I noticed that the waves of sound
were under a slight Doppler effect. With the immense magnification
necessary for transmitting from the Moon, such deflection might be
construed as a mere fan-like extension. But there was ten times the
magnification one would expect from the Moon; and I calculated that
those sound-waves were shifted somewhere."

"Then what's your theory, Brent?"

"Those sounds come from another planet. Somewhere on the Moon there's
an intercepting and re-transmitting plant. Axelson is deflecting his
rays to give the impression that he's on the Moon, and to lure our
ships there."

"What do you advise?" asked Nat.

"I don't know, Sir."

"Neither do I. Set your course Moonward, and tell Mr. Benson to keep
his eyes peeled."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Moon Colony, discovered in 1976, when Kramer, of Baltimore, first
proved the practicability of mixing neon with the inert new gas,
leucon, and so conquering gravitation, had proved to be just what it
had been suspected of being--a desiccated, airless desolation.
Nevertheless, within the depths of the craters a certain amount of the
Moon's ancient atmosphere still lingered, sufficient to sustain life
for the queer troglodytes, with enormous lung-boxes, who survived
there, browsing like beasts upon the stunted, aloe-like vegetation.

Half man, half ape, and very much unlike either, these vestiges of a
species on a ruined globe had proved tractable and amenable to
discipline. They had become the laborers of the convict settlement
that had sprung up on the Moon.

Thither all those who had opposed the establishment of the World
Federation, together with all persons convicted for the fourth time of
a felony, had been transported, to superintend the efforts of these
dumb, unhuman Moon dwellers. For it had been discovered that the Moon
craters were extraordinarily rich in gold, and gold was still the
medium of exchange on Earth.

To supplement the vestigial atmosphere, huge stations had been set up,
which extracted the oxygen from the subterranean waters five miles
below the Moon's crust, and recombined it with the nitrogen with
which the surface layer was impregnated, thus creating an atmosphere
which was pumped to the workers.

Then a curious discovery had been made. It was impossible for human
beings to exist without the addition of those elements existing in the
air in minute quantities--neon, krypton, and argon. And the ships that
brought the gold bars back from the Moon had conveyed these gaseous
elements there.

       *       *       *       *       *

The droning of the sixteen atomic motors grew louder, and mingled with
the hum of gyroscopes. The ladder was drawn up and the port hole
sealed. On the enclosed bridge Nat threw the switch of durobronze that
released the non-conducting shutter which gave play to the sixteen
great magnets. Swiftly the great ship shot forward into the air. The
droning of the motors became a shrill whine, and then, growing too
shrill for human ears to follow it, gave place to silence.

Nat set the speed lever to five hundred miles an hour, the utmost that
had been found possible in passing through the earth's atmosphere,
owing to the resistance, which tended to heat the vessel and damage
the delicate atomic engines. As soon as the ether was reached, the
speed would be increased to ten or twelve thousand. That meant a
twenty-two hour run to the Moon Colony--about the time usually taken.

He pressed a lever, which set bells ringing in all parts of the ship.
By means of a complicated mechanism, the air was exhausted from each
compartment in turn, and then replaced, and as the bells rang, the men
at work trooped out of these compartments consecutively. This had been
originated for the purpose of destroying any life dangerous to man
that might unwittingly have been imported from the Moon, but on one
occasion it had resulted in the discovery of a stowaway.

Then Nat descended the bridge to the upper deck. Here, on a platform,
were the two batteries of three ray-guns apiece, mounted on swivels,
and firing in any direction on the port and starboard sides
respectively. The guns were enclosed in a thin sheath of osmium,
through which the lethal rays penetrated unchanged; about them, thick
shields of lead protected the gunners.

He talked with Benson for a while. "Don't let Axelson get the jump on
you," he said. "Be on the alert every moment." The gunners,
keen-looking men, graduates from the Annapolis gunnery school, grinned
and nodded. They were proud of their trade and its traditions; Nat
felt that the vessel was safe in their hands.

The chief mate appeared at the head of the companion, accompanied by a
girl. "Stowaway, Sir," he reported laconically. "She tumbled out of
the repair shop annex when we let out the air!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Nat stared at her in consternation, and the girl stared back at him.
She was a very pretty girl, hardly more than twenty-two or three,
attired in a businesslike costume consisting of a leather jacket,
knickers, and the black spiral puttees that had come into style in the
past decade. She came forward unabashed.

"Well, who are you?" snapped Nat.

"Madge Dawes, of the Universal News Syndicate," she answered,
laughing.

"The devil!" muttered Nat. "You people think you run the World
Federation since you got President Stark elected."

"We certainly do," replied the girl, still laughing.

"Well, you don't run this ship," said Nat. "How would you like a long
parachute drop back to Earth?"

"Don't be foolish, my dear man," said Madge. "Don't you know you'll
get wrinkles if you scowl like that? Smile! Ah, that's better. Now,
honestly, Cap we just had to get the jump on everybody else in
interviewing Axelson. It means such a lot to me."

Pouts succeeded smiles. "You're not going to be cross about it, are
you?" she pleaded.

"Do you realize the risk you're running, young woman?" Nat demanded.
"Are you aware that our chances of ever getting back to Earth are
smaller than you ought to have dreamed of taking?"

"Oh, that's all right," the girl responded. "And now that we're
friends again, would you mind asking the steward to get me something
to eat? I've been cooped up in that room downstairs for fifteen hours,
and I'm simply starving."

Nat shrugged his shoulders hopelessly. He turned to the chief mate.
"Take Miss Dawes down to the saloon and see that Wang Ling supplies
her with a good meal," he ordered. "And put her in the Admiral's
cabin. That good enough for you?" he asked satirically.

"Oh that'll be fine," answered the girl enthusiastically. "And I shall
rely on you to keep me posted about everything that's going on. And a
little later I'm going to take X-ray photographs of you and all these
men." She smiled at the grinning gunners. "That's the new fad, you
know, and we're going to offer prizes for the best developed skeletons
in the American Province, and pick a King and Queen of Beauty!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"A radio, Sir!"

Nat, who had snatched a brief interval of sleep, started up as the man
on duty handed him the message. The vessel had been constantly in
communication with Earth during her voyage, now nearing completion,
but the dreaded A-A-A that prefaced this message told Nat that it came
from Axelson.

"Congratulations on your attempt," the message ran, "I have watched
your career with the greatest interest, Lee, through the medium of
such scraps of information as I have been able to pick up on the
Moon. When you are my guest to-morrow I shall hope to be able to offer
you a high post in the new World Government that I am planning to
establish. I need good men. Fraternally, the Black Caesar."

Nat whirled about. Madge Dawes was standing behind him, trying to read
the message over his shoulder.

"Spying, eh?" said Nat bitterly.

"My dear man, isn't that my business?"

"Well, read this, then," said Nat, handing her the message. "You're
likely to repent this crazy trick of yours before we get much
farther."

And he pointed to the cosmic-ray skiagraph of the Moon on the curved
glass dome overhead. They were approaching the satellite rapidly. It
filled the whole dome, the craters great black hollows, the mountains
standing out clearly. Beneath the dome were the radium apparatus that
emitted the rays by which the satellite was photographed
cinematographically, and the gyroscope steering apparatus by which the
ship's course was directed.

Suddenly a buzzer sounded a warning. Nat sprang to the tube.

"Gravitational interference X40, gyroscopic aberrancy one minute 29,"
he called. "Discharge static electricity from hull. Mr. Benson, stand
by."

"What does that mean?" asked Madge.

"It means I shall be obliged if you'll abstain from speaking to the
man at the controls," snapped Nat.

"And what's that?" cried Madge in a shriller voice, pointing upward.

       *       *       *       *       *

Across the patterned surface of the Moon, shown on the skiagraph, a
black, cigar-shaped form was passing. It looked like one of the
old-fashioned dirigibles, and the speed with which it moved was
evident from the fact that it was perceptibly traversing the Moon's
surface. Perhaps it was travelling at the rate of fifty thousand miles
an hour.

Brent, the chief officer, burst up the companion. His face was livid.

"Black ship approaching us from the Moon, Sir," he stammered.
"Benson's training his guns, but it must be twenty thousands miles
away."

"Yes, even our ray-guns won't shoot that distance," answered Nat.
"Tell Benson to keep his guns trained as well as he can, and open fire
at five hundred."

Brent disappeared. Madge and Nat were alone on the bridge. Nat was
shouting incomprehensible orders down the tube. He stopped and looked
up. The shadow of the approaching ship had crossed the Moon's disk and
disappeared.

"Well, young lady, I think your goose is cooked," said Nat. "If I'm
not mistaken, that ship is Axelson's, and he's on his way to knock us
galley-west. And now oblige me by leaving the bridge."

"I think he's a perfectly delightful character, to judge from that
message he sent you," answered Madge, "and--"

Brent appeared again. "Triangulation shows ten thousand miles, Sir,"
he informed Nat.

"Take control," said Nat. "Keep on the gyroscopic course, allowing for
aberrancy, and make for the Crater of Pytho. I'll take command of the
guns." He hurried down the companion, with Madge at his heels.

       *       *       *       *       *

The gunners stood by the ray-guns, three at each. Benson perched on a
revolving stool above the batteries. He was watching a periscopic
instrument that connected with the bridge dome by means of a tube, a
flat mirror in front of him showing all points of the compass. At one
edge the shadow of the black ship was creeping slowly forward.

"Eight thousand miles, Sir," he told Nat. "One thousand is our extreme
range. And it looks as if she's making for our blind spot overhead."

Nat stepped to the speaking-tube. "Try to ram her," he called up to
Brent. "We'll open with all guns, pointing forward."

"Very good, Sir," the Cockney called back.

The black shadow was now nearly in the centre of the mirror. It moved
upward, vanished. Suddenly the atomic motors began wheezing again. The
wheeze became a whine, a drone.

"We've dropped to two thousand miles an hour, Sir," called Brent.

Nat leaped for the companion. As he reached the top he could hear the
teleradio apparatus in the wireless room overhead begin to chatter:

"A-A-A. Don't try to interfere. Am taking you to the Crater of Pytho.
Shall renew my offer there. Any resistance will be fatal. Axelson."

And suddenly the droning of the motors became a whine again, then
silence. Nat stared at the instrument-board and uttered a cry.

"What's the matter?" demanded Madge.

Nat swung upon her. "The matter?" he bawled. "He's neutralized our
engines by some infernal means of his own, and he's towing us to the
Moon!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The huge sphere of the Moon had long since covered the entire dome.
The huge Crater of Pytho now filled it, a black hollow fifty miles
across, into which they were gradually settling. And, as they settled,
the pale Earth light, white as that of the Moon on Earth, showed the
gaunt masses of bare rock, on which nothing grew, and the long
stalactites of glassy lava that hung from them.

Then out of the depths beneath emerged the shadowy shape of the
landing-stage.

"You are about to land," chattered the radio. "Don't try any tricks;
they will be useless. Above all, don't try to use your puny ray. You
are helpless."

The ship was almost stationary. Little figures could be seen swarming
upon the landing-stage, ready to adjust the iron claws to clamp the
hull. With a gesture of helplessness, Nat left the bridge and went
down to the main deck where, in obedience to his orders, the crew had
all assembled.

"Men, I'm putting it up to you," he said. "Axelson, the Black Caesar,
advises us not to attempt to use the Ray-guns. I won't order you to.
I'll leave the decision with you."

"We tried it fifteen minutes ago, Sir," answered Benson. "I told
Larrigan to fire off the stern starboard gun to see if it was in
working order, and it wasn't!"

At that moment the vessel settled with a slight jar into the clamps.
Once more the teleradio began to scream:

"Open the port hold and file out slowly. Resistance is useless. I
should turn my ray upon you and obliterate you immediately. Assemble
on the landing-stage and wait for me!"

"You'd best obey," Nat told his men. "We've got a passenger to
consider." He glared at Madge as he spoke, and Madge's smile was a
little more tremulous than it had been before.

"This is the most thrilling experience of my life, Captain Lee," she
said. "And I'll never rest until I've got an X-Ray photograph of Mr.
Axelson's skeleton for the Universal News Syndicate."

       *       *       *       *       *

One by one, Nat last, the crew filed down the ladder onto the
landing-stage, gasping and choking in the rarefied air that lay like a
blanket at the bottom of the crater. And the reason for this was only
too apparent to Nat as soon as he was on the level stage.

Overhead, at an altitude of about a mile, the black ship hung, and
from its bow a stupendous searchlight played to and fro over the
bottom of the crater, making it as light as day. And where had been
the mining machinery, the great buildings that had housed convicts and
Moon people, and the huge edifice that contained the pumping station,
there was--nothing.

The devilish ray of Axelson had not merely destroyed them, it had
obliterated all traces of them, and the crew of the liner were
breathing the remnants of the atmosphere that still lay at the bottom
of the Crater of Pytho.

But beside the twin landing-stages, constructed by the World
Federation, another building arose, with an open front. And that front
was a huge mirror, now scintillating under the searchlight from the
black ship.

"That's it, Sir!" shouted Brent.

"That's what?" snapped Nat.

"The deflecting mirror I was speaking of. That's what deflected the
ray that wiped out China. The ray didn't come from the Moon. And
that's the mirror that deflects the teleradio waves, the
super-Hertzian rays that carry the sound."

Nat did not answer. Sick at heart at the failure of his mission, he
was watching the swarm of Moon men who were at work upon the
landing-stage, turning the steel clamps and regulating the mechanism
that controlled the apparatus. Dwarfed, apish creature, with tiny
limbs, and chests that stood out like barrels, they bustled about,
chattering in shrill voices that seemed like the piping of birds.

It was evident that Axelson, though he had wiped out the Moon convicts
and the Moon people in the crater, had reserved a number of the latter
for personal use.

       *       *       *       *       *

The black ship was dropping into its position at the second
landing-stage, connected with the first by a short bridge. The
starboard hold swung open, and a file of shrouded and hooded forms
appeared, masked men, breathing in condensed air from receptacles upon
their chests, and staring with goggle eyes at their captives. Each one
held in his hand a lethal tube containing the ray, and, as if by
command, they took up their stations about their prisoners.

Then, at a signal from their leader, they suddenly doffed their masks.

Nat looked at them in astonishment. He had not known whether these
would be Earth denizens or inhabitants of some other planet. But they
were Earth men. And they were old.

Men of sixty or seventy, years, with long, gray beards and wrinkled
faces, and eyes that stared out from beneath penthouses of shaggy
eyebrows. Faces on which were imprinted despair and hopelessness.

Then the first man took off his mask and Nat saw a man of different
character.

A man in the prime of life, with a mass of jet black hair and a black
beard that swept to his waist, a nose like a hawk's, and a pair of
dark blue eyes that fixed themselves on Nat's with a look of
Luciferian pride.

"Welcome, Nathaniel Lee," said the man, in deep tones that had a
curious accent which Nat could not place. "I ought to know your name,
since your teleradios on Earth have been shouting it for three days
past as that of the man who is to save Earth from the threat of
destruction. And you know me!"

"Axelson--the Black Caesar," Nat muttered. For the moment he was taken
aback. He had anticipated any sort of person except this man, who
stood, looked, and spoke like a Viking, this incarnation of pride and
strength.

Axelson smiled--and then his eyes lit upon Madge Dawes. And for a
moment he stood as if petrified into a block of massive granite.

"What--who is this?" he growled.

"Why, I'm Madge Dawes, of the Universal News Syndicate," answered the
girl, smiling at Axelson in her irrepressible manner. "And I'm sure
you're not nearly such a bold, bad pirate as people think, and you're
going to let us all go free."

       *       *       *       *       *

Instantly Axelson seemed to become transformed into a maniac. He
turned to the old men and shouted in some incomprehensible language.
Nat and Madge, Brent and Benson, and two others who wore the uniforms
of officers were seized and dragged across the bridge to the
landing-stage where the black ship was moored. The rest of the crew
were ordered into a double line.

And then the slaughter began.

Before Nat could even struggle to break away from the gibbering Moon
men to whom he and the other prisoners had been consigned, the aged
crew of the Black Caesar had begun their work of almost instantaneous
destruction.

Streams of red and purple light shot from the ray-pistols that they
carried, and before them the crew of the ether-liner simply withered
up and vanished. They became mere masses of human dÃ©bris piled on the
landing-stage, and upon these masses, too, the old men turned their
implements, until only a few heaps of charred carbon remained on the
landing-stage, impalpable as burned paper, and slowly rising in the
low atmospheric pressure until they drifted over the crater.

Nat had cried out in horror at the sight, and tried to tear himself
free from the grasp of the Moon dwarfs who held him. So had the rest.
Never was struggle so futile. Despite their short arms and legs, the
Moon dwarfs held them in an unshakable grip, chattering and squealing
as they compressed them against their barrel-like chests until the
breath was all but crushed out of their bodies.

"Devil!" cried Nat furiously, as Axelson came up to him. "Why don't
you kill us, too?" And he hurled furious taunts and abuse at him, in
the hope of goading him into making the same comparatively merciless
end of his prisoners.

Axelson looked at him calmly, but made no reply. He looked at Madge
again, and his features were convulsed with some emotion that gave him
the aspect of a fiend. And then only did Nat realize that it was Madge
who was responsible for the Black Caesar's madness.

Axelson spoke again, and the prisoners were hustled up the ladder and
on board the black vessel.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Kommandant-Kommissar will see you!" The door of their prison had
opened, letting in a shaft of light, and disclosing one of the
graybeards, who stood there, pointing at Nat.

"The--who?" Nat demanded.

"The Kommandant-Kommissar, Comrade Axelson," snarled the graybeard.

Nat knew what that strange jargon meant. He had read books about the
political sect known as Socialists who flourished in the Nineteenth
and Twentieth Centuries, and, indeed, were even yet not everywhere
extinct. And with that a flash of intuition explained the presence of
these old men on board.

These were the men who had been imprisoned in their youth, with
Axelson's father, and had escaped and made their way into space, and
had been supposed dead long since. Somewhere they must have survived.

And here they were, speaking a jargon of past generations, and
ignorant that the world had changed, relics of the past, dead as the
dead Moon from which the black ship was winging away through the
ether.

"Don't go, Captain," pleaded Madge. "Tell him we'll all go together."

Nat shook his head. "Maybe I'll be able to make terms with him," he
answered, and stepped out upon the vessel's deck.

The graybeard slammed the door and laughed savagely. "You'll make no
terms with the Black Caesar," he said. "This is the reign of the
proletariat. The bourgeois must die! So Lenin decreed!"

But he stopped suddenly and passed his hand over his forehead like a
man awakening from a dream.

"Surely the proletariat has already triumphed on earth?" he asked. "A
long time has passed, and daily we expect the summons to return and
establish the new world-order. What year is this? Is it not 2017? It
is so hard to reckon on Eros."

"On Eros?" thought Nat. "This is the year 2044," he answered. "You've
been dreaming, my friend. We've had our new world-order, and it's not
in the least like the one you and your friends anticipated."

"Gott!" screamed the old man. "Gott, you're lying to me, bourgeois!
You're lying, I tell you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

So Eros was their destination! Eros, one of the asteroids, those tiny
fragments of a broken planet, lying outside the orbit of Mars. Some of
these little worlds, of which more than a thousand are known to exist,
are no larger than a gentleman's country estate; some are mere rocks
in space. Eros, Nat knew, was distinguished among them from the fact
that it had an eccentric orbit, which brought it at times nearer Earth
than any other heavenly body except the Moon.

Also that it had only been known for thirty years, and that it was
supposed to be a double planet, having a dark companion.

That was in Nat's mind as he ascended the bridge to where Axelson was
standing at the controls, with one of the graybeards beside him. The
door of his stateroom was open, and suddenly there scuttled out of it
one of the most bestial objects Nat had ever seen.

It was a Moon woman, a dwarfish figure, clothed in a shapeless garment
of spun cellulose, and in her arms she held a heavy-headed Moon baby,
whose huge chest stood up like a pyramid, while the tiny arms and legs
hung dangling down.

"Here is the bourgeois, Kommandant," said Nat's captor.

Axelson looked at Nat, eye meeting eye in a slow stare. Then he
relinquished the controls to the graybeard beside him, and motioned
Nat to precede him into the stateroom.

Nat entered. It was an ordinary room, much like that of the captain of
the ether-liner now stranded on the Moon. There were a bunk, chairs, a
desk and a radio receiver.

Axelson shut the door. He tried to speak and failed to master his
emotion. At last he said:

"I am prepared to offer you terms, Nathaniel Lee, in accordance with
my promise."

"I'll make no terms with murderers," replied Nat bitterly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Axelson stood looking at him. His great chest rose and fell. Suddenly
he put out one great hand and clapped Nat on the shoulder.

"Wise men," he said, "recognize facts. Within three weeks I shall be
the undisputed ruler of Earth. Whether of a desert or of a cowed and
submissive subject-population, rests with the Earth men. I have never
been on Earth, for I was born on Eros. My mother died at my birth. I
have never seen another human woman until to-day."

Nat looked at him, trying to follow what was in Axelson's mind.

"My father fled to Eros, a little planet seventeen miles in diameter,
as we have found. He called it a heavenly paradise. It was his
intention to found there a colony of those who were in rebellion
against the tyrants of Earth.

"His followers journeyed to the Moon and brought back Moon women for
wives. But there were no children of these unions. Later there were
dissensions and civil war. Three-fourths of the colony died in battle
with one another.

"I was a young man. I seized the reins of power. The survivors--these
old men--were disillusioned and docile. I made myself absolute. I
brought Moon men and women to Eros to serve us as slaves. But in a few
years the last of my father's old compatriots will have died, and thus
it was I conceived of conquering Earth and having men to obey me. For
fifteen years I have been experimenting and constructing apparatus,
with which I now have Earth at my mercy.

"But I shall need assistance, intelligent men who will obey me and aid
me in my plans. That is why I saved you and the other officers of
your ether-lines. If you will join me, you shall have the highest post
on Earth under me, Nathaniel Lee, and those others shall be under
you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Axelson paused, and, loathing the man though he did, Nat was conscious
of a feeling of pity for him that he could not control. He saw his
lonely life on Eros, surrounded by those phantom humans of the past,
and he understood his longing for Earth rule--he the planetary exile,
the sole human being of all the planetary system outside Earth,
perhaps, except for his dwindling company of aged men.

"To-day, Nathaniel Lee," Axelson went on, my life was recast in a new
mould when I saw the woman you have brought with you. I did not know
before that women were beautiful to look on. I did not dream that
creatures such as she existed. She must be mine, Nathaniel Lee.

"But that is immaterial. What is your answer to my offer?"

Nat was trying to think, though passion distorted the mental images as
they arose in his brain. To Axelson it was evidently incomprehensible
that there would be any objection to his taking Madge. Nat saw that he
must temporize for Madge's sake.

"I'll have to consult my companions," he answered.

"Of course," answered Axelson. "That is reasonable. Tell them that
unless they agree to join me it will be necessary for them to die. Do
Earth men mind death? We hate it on Eros, and the Moon men hate it,
too, though they have a queer legend that something in the shape of an
invisible man raises from their ashes. My father told me that that
superstition existed on Earth in his time, too. Go and talk to your
companions, Nathaniel Lee."

The Black Caesar's voice was almost friendly. He clapped Nat on the
shoulder again, and called the graybeard to conduct him back to his
prison.

"Oh, Captain Lee, I'm so glad you're back!" exclaimed Madge. "We've
been afraid for you. Is he such a terrible man, this Black Caesar?"

Nat sneered, then grinned malevolently. "Well, he's not exactly the
old-fashioned idea of a Sunday-school teacher," he answered. Of course
he could not tell the girl about Axelson's proposal.

       *       *       *       *       *

The little group of prisoners stood on the upper deck of the black
ship and watched the Moon men scurrying about the landing-stage as she
hovered to her position.

Axelson's father had not erred when he had called the tiny planet,
Eros, a heavenly paradise, for no other term could have described it.

They were in an atmosphere so similar to that of Earth that they could
breathe with complete freedom, but there seemed to be a lightness and
a vigor in their limbs that indicated that the air was supercharged
with oxygen or ozone. The presence of this in large amounts was
indicated by the intense blueness of the sky, across which fleecy
clouds were drifting.

And in that sky what looked like threescore moons were circling with
extraordinary swiftness. From thirty to forty full moons, of all
sizes, from that of a sun to that of a brilliant planet, and riding
black against the blue.

The sun, hardly smaller than when seen from Earth, shone in the
zenith, and Earth and Mars hung in the east and north respectively,
each like a blood-red sun.

The moons were some of the thousand other asteroids, weaving their
lacy patterns in and out among each other. But, stupendous as the
sight was, it was toward the terrestrial scene that the party turned
their eyes as the black ship settled.

A sea of sapphire blue lapped sands of silver and broke into soft
lines of foam. To the water's edge extended a lawn of brightest green,
and behind this an arm of the sea extended into what looked like a
tropical forest. Most of the trees were palmlike, but towered to
immense heights, their foliage swaying in a gentle breeze. There were
apparently no elevations, and yet, so small was the little sphere that
the ascending curve gave the illusion of distant heights, while the
horizon, instead of seeming to rise, lay apparently perfectly flat,
producing an extraordinary feeling of insecurity.

Near the water's edge a palatial mansion, built of hewn logs and of a
single story, stood in a garden of brilliant flowers. Nearer, beyond
the high landing-stage, were the great shipbuilding works, and near
them an immense and slightly concave mirror flashed back the light of
the sun.

"The death ray!" whispered Brent to Nat.

Axelson came up to the party as the ship settled down. "Welcome to
Eros," he said cordially. "My father told me that in some Earth tongue
that name meant 'love'."

       *       *       *       *       *

Never, perhaps, was so strange a feast held as that with which Axelson
entertained his guests that day. Dwarfish Moon men passed viands and a
sort of palm wine in the great banquet-room, which singularly
resembled one of those early twentieth century interiors shown in
museums. Only the presence of a dozen of the aged guards, armed with
ray-rods, lent a grimness to the scene.

Madge sat on Axelson's right, and Nat on his left. The girl's
lightheartedness had left her; her face grew strained as Axelson's
motives--which Nat had not dared disclose to her--disclosed themselves
in his manner.

Once, when he laid his finger for a moment against her white throat,
she started, and for a moment it seemed as if the gathering storm must
break.

For Nat had talked with his men, and all had agreed that they would
not turn traitor, though they intended to temporize as long as
possible, in the hope of catching the Black Caesar unawares.

Then slowly a somber twilight began to fall, and Axelson rose.

"Let us walk in the gardens during the reign of Erebos," he said.

"Erebos?" asked Nat.

"The black world that overshadows us each sleeping period," answered
Axelson.

Nat knew what he meant. The dark companion of Eros revolves around it
every six hours; the day of Eros would therefore never be longer than
six hours, this without reckoning the revolution of Eros around the
sun. But owing to its small size, it was probable that it was bathed
in almost perpetual sunshine.

The sweet scent of the flowers, much stronger than of any flowers on
earth, filled the air. They walked across the green lawn and entered a
jungle path, with bamboos and creeping plants on either side, and huge
palmlike trees. Behind them stalked the guards with their ray-rods.

A lake of deepest black disclosed itself. Suddenly Madge uttered a
scream and clung to Nat. "Look, look!" she cried. "It's horrible!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly Nat realized that the lake swarmed with monsters. They were
of crocodilian form, but twice the size of the largest crocodile, and
sprawled over one another in the shallows beside the margin. As the
party drew near, an enormous monster began waddling on its clawed feet
toward them.

A mouth half the length of the creature opened, disclosing a purplish
tongue and hideous fangs. Madge screamed again.

"Ah, so fear exists on Earth, too?" asked Axelson blandly. "That makes
my conquest sure. I suspected it, and yet I was not sure that science
had not conquered it. But there is no cause for fear. A magnetic field
protects us. See!"

For the waddling monster suddenly stopped short as if brought up
sharply by the bars of a cage, and drew back.

Axelson turned and wheezed in the Moon language--if the gibbering of
the dwarfs could be called speech--and one of the guards answered him.

"These primitive dwellers on Eros I have preserved," said Axelson, "as
a means of discipline. The Moon animals are afraid of them. I keep a
supply of those who have transgressed my laws to feed them. See!"

He turned and pointed. Two guards were bringing a gibbering,
screeching, struggling Moon man with them. Despite his strength, he
seemed incapable of making any resistance, but his whole body
quivered, and his hideous face was contorted with agony of terror.

At a distance of some fifty feet they turned aside into a little
bypath through the jungle, reappearing close beside the Lake upon a
raised platform. And what happened next happened so swiftly that Nat
was unable to do anything to prevent it.

The guards disappeared; the Moon man, as if propelled by some
invisible force, moved forward jerkily to the lake's edge. Instantly
one of the saurians had seized him in its jaws, and another had
wrenched half the body away, and the whole fighting, squirming mass
vanished in the depths.

And from far away came the screeching chant of the Moon men, as if in
invocation to some hideous deity.

And, moving perceptibly, the huge black orb of Eros's dark satellite
crept over the sky, completely covering it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Axelson stepped forward to where Nat stood, supporting Madge in his
arms. The girl had fainted with horror at the scene.

"Your answer Nathaniel Lee," he said softly. "I know you have been
postponing the decision. Now I will take the girl, and you shall give
me your answer. Will you and these men join me, or will you die as the
Moon man died?" He spoke wheezily, as if he, like Nat, had a cold.

And he put his arm around Madge.

Next moment something happened to him that had never happened in his
life before. The Black Caesar went down under a well-directed blow to
the jaw.

He leaped to his feet trembling with fury and barked a command.
Instantly the old guards had hurled themselves forward. And behind
them a horde of Moon men came, ambling.

While the guards covered their prisoners with their ray-rods, two Moon
men seized each of them, imprisoning him in their unbreakable grasp.

Axelson pointed upward. "When the reign of Erebos is past," he said,
"you become food for the denizens of the lake, unless you have agreed
to serve me."

And he raised Madge in his arms, laughing as the girl fought and
struggled to resist him.

"Madge!" cried Nat, trying to run toward her.

So furious were his struggles that for a moment he succeeded in
throwing off the Moon men's grasp. Then he was caught again, and,
fighting desperately, was borne off by the dwarfs through the shadows.

They traversed the border of the lake until a small stone building
disclosed itself. Nat and the others were thrust inside into pitch
darkness. The door clanged; in vain they hurled themselves against it.
It was of wood, but it was as solid as the stone itself, and it did
not give an inch for all their struggles.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Where is your Kommandant?" The whisper seemed in the stone hut
itself. "Your Nathaniel Lee. I must speak to him. I am the guard who
brought him to the Black Caesar on board the ship."

"I'm here," said Nat. "Where are you?"

"I am in the house of the ray. I am on guard there. I am speaking into
the telephone which runs only to where you are. You can speak anywhere
in the hut, and I shall hear you."

"Well, what do you want?" asked Nat.

"You love the Earth woman. I remember, when I was a boy, we used to
love. I had forgotten. There was a girl in Stamford.... Tell me, is it
true that this is the year 2044 and that the proletariat has not yet
triumphed?"

"It's true," said Nat. "Those dreams are finished, We're proud of the
World Federation. Tell me about Madge Dawes--the Earth woman. Is she
safe?"

"He has taken her to his house. I do not think she is harmed. He is
ill. He is closely guarded. There are rumors afoot. I do not know."

"What do you want, then?"

"If the Black Caesar dies will you take me back to Earth again? I long
so for the old Earth life. I will be your slave, if only I can set
foot on Earth before I die."

"Can you rescue us?" Nat held his breath.

"The Moon men are on guard."

"They have no ray-guns and you have."

"The penalty would be terrible. I should be thrown to the monsters."

"Can you get us each a ray-gun? Will you risk it, to get back to
Earth?" asked Nat.

A pause. Then, "My friend, I am coming."

Nat heard Benson hissing in his ear, "If we can surprise them, we can
get possession of the black ship and return."

"We must get Madge Dawes."

"And smash the mirror," put in Brent.

After that there was nothing to do but wait.

       *       *       *       *       *

The door clicked open. An indistinct form stood in the entrance. It
was already growing light; the dark satellite that eclipsed Eros was
passing.

"Hush! I have brought you ray-rods!" It was the old man with whom Nat
had spoken on the boat. Under his arm he held five metallic rods,
tipped with luminous glass. He handed one to each of the prisoners.
"Do you know how to use them?" he asked.

Nat examined his. "It's an old-style rod that was used on earth fifty
years ago," he told his men. "I've seen them in museums. It came into
use in the Second World War of 1950 or thereabouts. You slip back the
safety catch and press this button, taking aim as one did with the
pistol. You fellows have seen pistols?"

"My father had an old one," said the chief mate, Barnes.

"How many times can they be fired without reloading?" Nat asked the
old guard.

"Ten times; sometimes more; and they were all freshly loaded
yesterday."

"Take us to where Axelson is."

"First you must destroy the guards. I sent the one on duty here away
on some pretext. But the others may be here at any moment. Talk lower.
Are you going to kill them?"

"We must," said Nat.

The old fellow began to sob. "We were companions together. They seized
us and imprisoned us together, the capitalists, years ago. I thought
the proletariat would have won, and you say it is all different. I am
an old man, and life is sad and strange."

"Listen. Is Axelson in the house?" demanded Nat.

"He is in his secret room. I do not know the way. None of us has ever
entered it."

"And Madge?"

"She was with him. I do not know anything more." He sank down,
groaning, broken.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nat pushed his way past him. It was fast growing light now. A ray of
sunshine shot from beneath the edge of the dark sphere overhead, which
still filled almost all the heavens. At that moment the hideous face
and squat body of one of the Moon men came into view at the end of
the path. The creature stopped, gibbering with surprise, and then
rushed forward, mewing like a cat.

Nat aimed his ray-rod and pressed the button. The streak of light, not
quite aimed, in Nat's excitement, sheared off one side of the Moon
man's face.

The creature rocked where it stood, raised its voice in a screech, and
rushed forward again, arms flailing. And this time Nat got home. The
streak passed right through the body of the monster, which collapsed
into a heap of calcined carbon.

But its screech had brought the other dwarfs running to the scene. In
a moment the path was blocked by a score of the hideous monsters,
which, taking in what was happening, came forward in a yelling bunch.

The ray-rods streaked their message of death into the thick of them.
Yet so fierce was the rush that some parts got home. Arms, legs, and
barrel chests, halves of men, covering the five with that impalpable
black powder into which their bodies were dissolving. Nat remembered
afterward the horror of a grinning face, apparently loose in the air,
and a flailing arm that lashed his chest.

For fifteen seconds, perhaps, it was like struggling with some vampire
creatures in a hideous dream. And then, just when it seemed to Nat
that he was going mad, he found the path free, and the huddled
remnants of the Moon men piled up about him on every side.

He emptied two more ray-shots into the writhing mass, and saw it cease
to quiver and then dissolve into the black powder. He turned and
looked at his companions. They, too, showed the horror of the strain
they had undergone.

"We must kill the guards now," Nat panted. "And then find Madge and
save her."

"We're with you," answered Brent, and together the five rushed into
the sunlight and the open.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were no guards on duty at the entrance of the house, and the
door stood wide open. Nat rushed through the door at the head of his
men. A single guard was in the hall, but he only looked up as they
came in. And it was evident that he was in no condition to resist, for
he was in the grip of some terrible disease.

His features were swollen so that they were hardly recognizable, and
hoarse, panting breaths came from his lungs. He was so far gone that
he hardly registered surprise at the advent of the five.

"Where's Axelson?" demanded Nat.

The guard pointed toward the end of the corridor, then let his arm
fall. Nat led his men along the half-dark passage.

At the end of the corridor two more guards were on duty, but one was
collapsed upon the floor, apparently unconscious, and the other,
making a feeble attempt to draw his ray-rod, crumbled into ashes as
Brent fired. The five burst through the door.

They found themselves in the banquet-hall. The remnants of the meal
were still upon the table, and three Moon men, looking as if they had
been poisoned, were writhing on the floor. At the farther end of the
hall was another door.

This gave upon a central hall, with a door in each of its four sides,
and a blaze of sunlight coming through the crystal roof. The five
stopped, baffled. Then of a sudden Axelson's voice broke the
silence--his voice, yet changed almost beyond recognition, hoarse,
broken, and gasping:

"Try the doors, Nathaniel Lee. Try each door in turn, and then go
back. And know that in an instant I can blast you to nothingness where
you stand!"

And suddenly there came Madge's voice, "He can't! He can't, Nat. He's
dying, and he knows it. I won't let him, and he hasn't got the
strength to move."

"Which door?" cried Nat in desperation.

"None of the doors. They're a trick," came Madge's voice. "Go forward
and press the grooved panel upon the wall in front of you."

       *       *       *       *       *

Nat stepped forward, found the panel, and pressed it. The wall swung
open, like two folded doors, revealing another room within, perfectly
circular.

It contained a quantity of pieces of apparatus, some glowing with
light, some dark, and a radio transmitting set; it was evidently the
secret lair of the Black Caesar. And there he was, trapped at last by
the mortal illness that had overtaken him!

He was lying upon the couch, his great form stretched out, his
features hideously swollen by the same disease that had attacked the
guards.

Nat raised his ray-rod, but Axelson feebly put up his hand, and Nat
lowered the weapon. And, as the five gathered about the dying man,
again Nat felt that strange sense of pathos and pity for him.

He had never known Earth life, and he was not to be measured by the
common standards applicable on Earth.

"Don't fire, Nat," said Madge in a shaky voice. She was seated beside
Axelson, and--the wonder of it--she was sponging the foam from his
lips and moistening his forehead. She raised a crystal that contained
some fluid to his lips, and he drained it greedily.

"So--Earth wins, Nathaniel Lee," whispered Axelson hoarsely. "I am
dying. I know it. It is the same dreaded disease that came to the Moon
at the time of my father's landing there. Three-fourths of the Moon
animals died. It is mortal. The lungs burn away.

"My father told me that on Earth it is not mortal. He called it
'cold'--but I am burning hot."

Then only did Nat understand, and the irony of it made him catch his
breath and grit his teeth to check his hysterical laughter. The Black
Caesar, the terror of Earth, was dying of a common cold which he
himself had given him.

The coryza germ, almost harmless on Earth, among a population
habituated to it for countless generations, had assumed the potency of
a plague here, where no colds had ever been known--among the Moon men,
and even among the guards, after their lifetime in the germless
climate of Eros.

"I've failed, Nathaniel Lee," came the Black Caesar's voice. "And yet
that hardly troubles me. There is something more that I do not
understand. She is a creature like ourselves--with will and reason.
She is not like the Moon women. She told me that she did not wish to
be queen of the Earth because she did not love me. I do not
understand. And so--I am glad to go."

       *       *       *       *       *

A gasp came from Axelson's throat as he raised his head and tried to
speak, but the death-rattle was already in his throat. A slight
struggle, and the massive form upon the couch was nothing but
inanimate clay.

Madge rose from beside him, and the tears were streaming down her
face.

"He wasn't a bad man, Nat," she said. "He was--gentle with me. He
didn't understand; that was all. When I refused to be his queen, he
was overcome with bewilderment. Oh, Nat, I can never, never write this
story for the Universal News Syndicate."

Nat led her, sobbing, from the room.

Soon he succeeded in getting into teleradio communication with Earth.
He broadcast the news that the Black Caesar was dead, and that his
power for evil was at an end forever.

Then, in the few hours of daylight that remained, he set his men to
work to smash the ray outfit that had destroyed China. There was some
principle involved which he did not altogether understand, though
Brent professed to have a clue to it, but it was evident that, except
for the ray, Axelson had possessed no knowledge superior to that of
the Earth scientists.

Of the guards, a few were already recovering, principally those of
comparatively younger age. Not a Moon man, on the other hand, had
survived the epidemic. As soon as Nat had got the guards out of the
house, he reduced it to ashes by the aid of an old-fashioned box of
phosphoric matches.

As the dark satellite was again creeping over Eros, the black ship set
sail.

       *       *       *       *       *

But of the return journey to the Moon, where they transferred to their
own ship, of their landing at New York, and of the triumphal reception
that was accorded them, this is no place to speak. Nat's journey with
Madge from the center of the city, in what was the old Borough of
Westchester, to his home in the suburb of Hartford, was a continual
ovation.

Crowds lined the air-route, and every few miles, so thick was the
air-traffic, he was forced to hover and address the cheering
multitudes. Hartford itself was _en fete_, and across the main road
the City Bosses had hung an old-fashioned banner, strung from house to
house on either side, bearing the legend: For World President:
NATHANIEL LEE!

Nat turned to Madge, who was seated beside him silently. "Ever hear of
'getting married?'" he asked.

"Of course I've heard of it," replied the girl indignantly. "Do you
think I'm as dumb as that, Nat Lee? Why, those old-fashioned novels
are part of the public schools' curriculum."

"Pity those days can't come back. You ought to be a World
Presidentess, you know," said Nat. "I was thinking, if we registered
as companionates, I could take you into the White House, and you'd
have a swell time there taking X-rays on visiting days."

"Well," answered Madge slowly. "I never thought of that. It might be
worth trying out."




The Second Satellite

_By Edmond Hamilton_

[Illustration: _The city of the frog-men!_]

[Sidenote: Earth-men war on frog-vampires for the emancipation of the
human cows of Earth's second satellite.]


Norman and Hackett, bulky in their thick flying suits, seemed to fill
the little office. Across the room Harding, the field superintendent,
contemplated them. Two planes were curving up into the dawn together
from the field outside, their motors thunderous as they roared over
the building. When their clamor had receded, Harding spoke:

"I don't know which of you two is crazier," he said. "You, Norman, to
propose a fool trip like this, or you, Hackett, to go with him."

Hackett grinned, but the long, lean face of Norman was earnest. "No
doubt it all sounds a little insane," he said, "but I'm convinced I'm
right."

The field superintendent shook his head. "Norman, you ought to be
writing fiction instead of flying. A second satellite--and Fellows and
the others on it--what the devil!"

"What other theory can account for their disappearance?" asked Norman
calmly. "You know that since the new X-type planes were introduced,
hundreds of fliers all over Earth have been trying for altitude
records in them. Twenty-five miles--thirty--thirty-five--the records
have been broken every day. But out of the hundreds of fliers who
have gone up to those immense heights, four have never come down nor
been seen again!

"One vanished over northern Sweden, one over Australia, one over Lower
California, and one, Fellows, himself, right here over Long Island.
You saw the globe on which I marked those four spots, and you saw that
when connected they formed a perfect circle around the Earth. The only
explanation is that the four fliers when they reached a forty-mile
height were caught up by some body moving round Earth in that circular
orbit, some unknown moon circling Earth inside its atmosphere, a
second satellite of Earth's whose existence has until now never been
suspected!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Harding shook his head again. "Norman, your theory would be all right
if it were not for the cold fact that no such satellite has ever been
glimpsed."

"Can you glimpse a bullet passing you?" Norman retorted. "The two
fliers at Sweden and Lower California vanished within three hours of
each other, on opposite sides of the Earth. That means that this
second satellite, as I've computed, circles Earth once every six
hours, and travelling at that terrific speed it is no more visible to
us of Earth than a rifle bullet would be."

"Moving through Earth's atmosphere at such speed, indeed, one would
expect it to burn up by its own friction with the air. But it does
not, because its own gravitational power would draw to itself enough
air to make a dense little atmosphere for itself that would cling to
it and shield it as it speeds through Earth's upper air. No, I'm
certain that this second satellite exists, Harding, and I'm as certain
that it's responsible for the vanishing of those four fliers."

"And now you and Hackett have figured when it will be passing over
here and are going up in an X-type yourselves to look for it,"
Harding said musingly.

"Look for it?" echoed Hackett. "We're not going to climb forty miles
just to get a look at the damn thing--we're going to try landing on
it!"

"You're crazy sure!" the field superintendent exploded. "If Fellows
and those others got caught by the thing and never came down again,
why in the name of all that's holy would you two want--" He stopped
suddenly. "Oh, I think I see," he said, awkwardly. "Fellows was rather
a buddy of you two, wasn't he?"

"The best that ever flew a crippled Nieuport against three Fokkers to
pull us out of a hole," said Norman softly. "Weeks he's been gone, and
if it had been Hackett and I he'd be all over the sky looking for
us--the damned lunatic. Well, we're not going to let him down."

"I see," Harding repeated. Then--"Well, here comes your mechanic,
Norman, so your ship must be ready. I'll go with you. It's an event to
see two Columbuses starting for another world."

       *       *       *       *       *

The gray dawn-light over the flying field was flushing to faint rose
as the three strode out to where the long X-type stood, its strangely
curved wings, enclosed cabin and flat, fan-like tail gleaming dully.
Its motor was already roaring with power and the plane's stubby wheels
strained against the chocks. In their great suits Norman and Hackett
were like two immense ape-figures in the uncertain light, to the eyes
of those about them.

"Well, all the luck," Harding told them. "You know I'm pulling for
you, but--I suppose it's useless to say anything about being careful."

"I seem to have heard the words," Hackett grinned, as he and Norman
shook the field superintendent's hand.

"It's all the craziest chance," Norman told the other. "And if we
don't come down in a reasonable time--well, you'll know that our
theory was right, and you can broadcast it or not as you please."

"I hope for your sake that you're dead wrong," smiled the official.
"I've told you two to get off the Earth a lot of times, but I never
meant it seriously."

Harding stepped back as the two clambered laboriously into the cramped
cabin. Norman took the controls, the door slammed, and as the chocks
were jerked back and the motor roared louder the long plane curved up
at a dizzy angle from the field into the dawn. Hackett waved a thick
arm down toward the diminishing figures on the field below; then
turned from the window to peer ahead with his companion.

The plane flew in a narrow ascending spiral upward, at an angle that
would have been impossible to any ship save an X-type. Norman's eyes
roved steadily over the instrument as they rose, his ears
unconsciously alert for each explosion of the motor. Earth receded
swiftly into a great gray concave surface as they climbed higher and
higher.

By the time the five-mile height was reached Earth's surface had
changed definitely from concave to convex. The plane was ascending by
then in a somewhat wider spiral, but its climb was as steady and sure
as ever. Frost begin to form quickly on the cabin's windows, creeping
out from the edges. Norman spoke a word over the motor's muffled
thunder, and Hackett snicked on the electrical radiators. The frost
crept back as their warm, clean heat flooded the cabin.

Ten miles--fifteen--they had reached already altitudes impossible but
a few years before, though it was nothing to the X-types. As they
passed the ten-mile mark, Hackett set the compact oxygen-generator
going. A clean, tangy odor filled the cabin as it began functioning.
Twenty miles--twenty-two--

       *       *       *       *       *

After a time Norman pointed mutely to the clock on the instrument
board, and Hackett nodded. They were well within their time schedule,
having calculated to reach the forty-mile height at ten, the hour
when, by its computed orbit, the second satellite should be passing
overhead. "--26--27--28--" Hackett muttered the altimeter figures to
himself as the needle crept over them.

Glancing obliquely down through the window he saw that Earth was now a
huge gray ball beneath them, white cloud-oceans obscuring the drab
details of its surface here and there. "--31--32--" The plane was
climbing more slowly, and at a lesser angle. Even the X-type had to
struggle to rise in the attenuated air now about them. Only the
super-light, super-powered plane could ever have reached the terrific
height.

It was at the thirty-four mile level that the real battle for altitude
began. Norman kept the plane curving steadily upward, handling it with
surpassing skill in the rarefied air. Frost was on its windows now
despite the heating mechanism. Slowly the altimeter needle crept to
the forty mark. Norman kept the ship circling, its wings tilted
slightly, but not climbing, Earth a great gray misty ball beneath.

"Can't keep this height long," he jerked. "If our second satellite
doesn't show up in minutes we've had a trip for nothing."

"All seems mighty different up here," was Hackett's shouted comment.
"Easy enough to talk down there about hopping onto the thing, but up
here--hell, there's nothing but air and mighty little of that!"

Norman grinned. "There'll be more. If I'm right about this thing we
won't need to hop it--its own atmosphere will pick us up."

Both looked anxious as the motor sputtered briefly. But in a moment it
was again roaring steadily. Norman shook his head.

"Maybe a fool's errand after all. No--I'm still sure we're right! But
it seems that we don't prove it this time."

"Going down?" asked Hackett.

"We'll have to, in minutes. Even with its own air-feed the motor can't
stand this height for--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Norman never finished the words. There was a sound, a keen rising,
rushing sound of immense power that reached their ears over the
motor's roar. Then in an instant the universe seemed to go mad about
them: they saw the gray ball of Earth and the sun above skyrocketing
around them as the plane whirled madly.

The rushing sound was in that moment thunderous, terrible, and as
winds smashed and rocked the plane like giant hands, Hackett glimpsed
another sphere that was not the sphere of Earth, a greenish globe that
expanded with lightning speed in the firmament beside their spinning
plane! The winds stilled; the green globe changed abruptly to a
landscape of green land and sea toward which the plane was falling!
Norman was fighting the controls--land and sea were gyrating up to
them with dizzy speed--crash!

With that cracking crash the plane was motionless. Sunlight poured
through its windows, and great green growths were all around it.
Hackett, despite Norman's warning cry, forced the door open and was
bursting outside, Norman after him. They staggered and fell, with
curious lightness and slowness, on the ground outside, then clutched
the plane for support and gazed stupefiedly around them.

The plane had crashed down into a thicket of giant green reeds that
rose a yard over their heads, its pancake landing having apparently
not damaged it. The ground beneath their feet was soft and soggy, the
air warm and balmy, and the giant reeds hid all the surrounding
landscape from view.

In the sky the sun burned near one horizon with unusual brilliance.
But it was dwarfed, in size, by the huge gray circle that filled half
the heavens overhead. A giant gray sphere it was, screened here and
there by floating white mists and clouds, that had yet plain on it
the outlines of dark continents and gleaming seas. A quaking
realization held the two as they stared up at it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Earth!" Norman was babbling. "It's Earth, Hackett--above us; my God,
I can't believe even yet that we've done it!"

"Then we're on--the satellite--the second satellite!--" Hackett fought
for reality. "Those winds that caught us--"

"They were the atmosphere of this world, of the second satellite! They
caught us and carried us on inside this smaller world's atmosphere,
Hackett. We're moving with it around Earth at terrific speed now!"

"The second satellite, and we on it!" Hackett whispered,
incredulously. "But these reeds--it can't all be like this--"

They stepped together away from the plane. The effort sent each of
them sailing upward in a great, slow leap, to float down more than a
score of feet from the plane. But unheeding in their eagerness this
strange effect of the satellite's lesser gravitational power, they
moved on, each step a giant, clumsy leap. Four such steps took them
out of the towering reeds onto clear ground.

It was a gentle, grassy slope they were on, stretching away along a
gray-green sea that extended out to the astoundingly near horizon on
their right. To the left it rose into low hills covered with dense
masses of green junglelike vegetation. Hackett and Norman, though,
gazed neither at sea or hills for the moment, but at the half-score
grotesque figures who had turned toward them as they emerged from the
reeds. A sick sense of the unreal held them as they gazed, frozen with
horror. For the great figures returning their gaze a few yards from
them were--frog-men!

       *       *       *       *       *

Frog-men! Great mottled green shapes seven to eight feet in height,
with bowed, powerful legs and arms that ended in webbed paws. The
heads were bulbous ones in which wide, unwinking frog-eyes were set at
the sides, the mouths white-lipped and white-lined. Three of the
creatures held each a black metal tube-and-handle oddly like a
target-pistol.

"Norman!" Hackett's voice was a crescendo of horror. "_Norman!_"

"Back to the plane!" Norman cried thickly. "The plane--"

The two staggered back, but the frog-men, recovering from their own
first surprise, were running forward with great hopping steps! The two
fliers flung themselves back in a floating leap toward the reeds, but
the green monsters were quick after them. A croaking cry came from one
and as another raised his tube-and-handle, something flicked from it
that burst close beside Norman. There was no sound or light as it
burst, but the reeds for a few feet around it vanished!

       *       *       *       *       *

A hoarse cry from Hackett--the creatures had reached him, grasped him
at the edge of the reeds! Norman swerved in his floating leap to
strike the struggling flier and frog-men. The scene whirled around him
as he fought them, great paws reaching for him. With a sick, frantic
rage he felt his clenched fist drive against cold, green, billowy
bodies. Croaking cries sounded in his ears; then, Hackett and he were
jerked to their feet, held tightly by four of the creatures.

"My God, Norman," panted Hackett, helpless. "What are
they--frog-things?--"

"Steady, Hackett. They're the people of the second satellite, it
seems; wait!"

One of the armed frog-men approached and inspected them, and then
croaked an order in a deep voice. Then, still holding the two tightly,
the party of monsters began to move along the slope, skirting the
sea's edge. In a few minutes they reached two curious objects resting
on the slope. They seemed long black metal boats, slender and with
sharp prow and stern. A compact mechanism and control-board filled
the prow, while at the stern and sides were long tubes mounted on
swivels like machine-guns.

The frog-men motioned Norman and Hackett into one, fastening the two
prisoners and themselves into their seats with metal straps provided
for the purpose. Four had entered the one boat, the others that of the
captives. One at the prow moved his paws over the control-board and
with a purring of power the boat, followed by the other, rose smoothly
into the air. It headed out over the gray-green sea, land dropping
quickly from sight behind, the horizons water-bounded on all sides.
From their nearness Norman guessed that this second satellite of
Earth's was small indeed beside its mother planet. He had to look up
to earth's great gray sphere overhead to attain a sense of reality.

Hackett was whispering beside him, the frog-men watchful. "Norman, it's
not real--it can't be real! These things--these boats--intelligent like
men--"

The other sought to steady him. "It's a different world, Hackett.
Gravitation different, light different, everything different, and
evolution here has had a different course. On Earth men evolved to be
the most intelligent life-forms, but here the frog-races, it seems."

"But where are they taking us? Could we ever find the plane again?"

"God knows. If we ever get away from these things we might. And we've
got to find Fellows, too; I wonder where he is on this world."

       *       *       *       *       *

For many minutes the two boats raced on at great speed over the
endless waters before the watery skyline was broken far ahead by
something dark and unmoving. Hackett and Norman peered with intense
interest toward it. It seemed at first a giant squat mountain rising
from the sea, but as they shot nearer they saw that its outline was
too regular, and that colossal as it was in size it was the work of
intelligence. They gasped as they came nearer and got a better view of
it.

For it was a gigantic dome of black metal rising sheer from the lonely
sea, ten miles if anything in diameter, a third that in greatest
height. There was no gate or window or opening of any kind in it. Just
the colossal, smooth black dome rearing from the watery plain. Yet the
two boats were flashing lower toward it.

"They can't be going inside!" Hackett conjectured. "There's no way in
and what could be in there? The whole thing's mad--"

"There's some way," Norman said. "They're slowing--"

The flying-boats were indeed slowing as they dipped lower. They were
very near the dome now, its curving wall a looming, sky-high barrier
before them. Suddenly the boats dipped sharply downward toward the
green sea. Before the two fliers could comprehend their purpose, could
do aught more than draw instinctive great breaths in preparation, the
two craft had shot down into the waters and were arrowing down through
the green depths.

Blinded, flung against his metal strap by the resistance of the waters
they ripped through, Norman yet retained enough of consciousness to
glimpse beams of light that stabbed ahead from the prows of their
rushing boats, to see vaguely strange creatures of the deep blundering
in and out of those beams as the boats hurtled forward. The water that
forced its way between his lips was fresh, he was vaguely aware, and
even as he fought to hold his breath was aware too that the frog-men
seemed in no way incommoded by the sudden transition into the water,
their amphibian nature allowing them to stay under it far longer than
any human could do.

The boats ripped through the waters at terrific speed and in a few
seconds there loomed before them the giant metal wall of the great
dome, going down into the depths here. Norman glimpsed vaguely that
the whole colossal dome rested on a vast pedestal-like mountain of
rock that rose from the sea's floor almost to the surface. Then a
great round opening in the wall; the boats flashed into it and were
hurtling along a water-filled tunnel. Norman felt his lungs near
bursting--when the tunnel turned sharply upward and the boats whizzed
up and abruptly out of the water-tunnel into air!

       *       *       *       *       *

But it was not the open air again. They were beneath the gigantic
dome! For as Norman and Hackett breathed deep, awe fell on their faces
as they took in the scene. Far overhead stretched the dome's
colossally curving roof, and far out on all sides. It was lit beneath
that roof by a clear light that the two would have sworn was sunlight.
The dome was in effect the roof of a gigantic, illuminated building,
and upon its floor there stretched a mighty city.

The city of the frog-men! Their boats were rising up over it and
Norman and Hackett saw it clear. Square mile upon square mile of
structures stretched beneath the dome, black buildings often of
immense size, varying in shape, but all of square, rectangular
proportions. Between them moved countless frog-hordes, swirling
throngs in streets and squares, and over the roofs darted thick swarms
of flying-boats. And at the city's center, in a great, circular, clear
space, lay a wide, round, green pool--the opening of the water-tunnel
up through which they had come.

Norman pointed down toward it. "That's your answer!" he cried. "The
only entrance to this frog-city is from the sea, up through that
water-tunnel!"

"Good God, an amphibian city!" Hackett was shaken, white-faced.

The two boats were driving quickly over the city, through the swarming
craft. Norman glimpsed towering buildings that might have been
palaces, temples, laboratories. They slowed and dipped toward one
block-like building not far from the water-tunnel's opening. Armed
frog-guards were on its roof, and other boats rested there. The two
came to rest and the two captives were jerked out, the guards seizing
them.

Half-dragged and half-floating they were led toward an opening in the
roof from which a stair led downward. They passed down thus into the
building's interior, lit by many windows. Norman glimpsed long halls
ending in barred doors, guards here and there. Tube-lines ran along
the walls and somewhere machines were throbbing dully. They came at
last to a barred door whose guard opened it at the croaking order of
the frog-men who held the two, and they were thrust inside, as the
door clanged. They turned, and exclaimed in amazement. The room held
fully a half-hundred men!

They were men such as the two fliers had never seen before, like
humans except that their skins were a light green instead of the
normal white and pink. They were dressed in dark short tunics, and
kept talking to each other in a tongue quite unintelligible to Norman
and Hackett. They came closer, flocking curiously around the two men,
with a babel of voices quite meaningless to the two. Then one of the
men uttered an exclamation, and all turned.

       *       *       *       *       *

The barred door had swung open and a half-dozen frog-guards entered,
followed by two frog-men carrying a square little mechanism from which
tubing led back out through the door.

"Norman--these men--" Hackett was whispering rapidly. "If there are
men in this world too, it may be that--"

"Quiet, Hackett--look at what they're doing."

The two frog-men had set their mechanism in place and then croaked out
a brief word or order. Slowly, reluctantly, one of the green men moved
toward them. Quickly they removed a metal disk fastened to his arm,
exposing a small orifice like an unhealed wound. Onto this they
fastened a suckerlike object from which a transparent tube led back
through the mechanism. The machine hummed and at once a red stream
pulsed through the tube and back through the mechanism. The man to
whom it was attached was growing rapidly pale!

Norman, sick with horror, clutched his companion. "Hackett--these
frog-men are sucking his blood from him!"

"Good God! And look--they're doing it with another!"

"All of these men--kept prisoners to furnish them with blood. It must
be the damned creatures' food! And we here with the others--"

A common horror shook the two. It did not seem to affect the green men
in the room, though, who advanced to the mechanism one by one with a
reluctant air as of cows unwilling to be milked. Each was attached to
the mechanism by the sucking disk on his arm, and out of each the
blood poured through the tube. The metal disk was replaced on his arm
then and he went back to the others. Norman saw that the frog-men took
only from each an amount of blood that they could lose and yet live,
since, though each came back pale and weak from the mechanism, they
were able to walk.

"It must be their food--human blood!" Norman repeated. "They may have
thousands on thousands of humans penned up like this, like so many
herds of cows, and perhaps they live entirely on the life-blood they
milk from them. Human cows--God!"

"Norman--look--they're calling to us!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The two stiffened. All the others in the room had taken their turn at
the blood-sucking mechanism and now the frog-men croaked their order
to the two fliers. They had forgotten their own predicament in the
horror of the scene, but now it became real to them. They backed
against the room's wall, quivering, dangerous.

The frog-guards came forward to drag them to the machine. A webbed paw
was outstretched but Hackett with a wild blow drove the frog-man back
and downward. The frog-guards leaped, and Norman and Hackett struck
them back with all the greater strength the lesser gravitation gave
them. The room was in an uproar, the green men shouting hoarsely and
seeming on the point of rushing to their aid.

But the menacing force-pistols of the other frog-guards held back the
shouting men and in moments the two fliers were overpowered by sheer
weight of frog-bodies. Norman felt himself dragged to the machine.

Pain needled his upper arm as an incision was made. He felt the
sucking-disk attached; then the machine hummed, and a sickening nausea
swept him as the blood drained from his body. Held tightly by the
guards he went dizzy, weak, but at last felt the sucker removed and a
metal disk fastened over the incision. He was jerked aside and
Hackett, his face deathly white, was dragged into his place. In a
moment some of the latter's blood had been pumped from him also.

The machine was withdrawn, Norman and Hackett were released, and the
frog-men, with their black force-pistols watchfully raised, withdrew,
the door clanging. The room settled back to quietness, the green men
stretching in lassitude on the metal bunks around it. The two fliers
crouched down near the door, shuddering nausea and weakness still
holding them.

Norman found that Hackett was laughing weakly. "To think that
twenty-four hours ago I was in New York," he half-laughed,
half-sobbed. "On Earth--Earth--"

The other gripped his arm. "It's horrible, Hackett, I know. But it
isn't instant death, and we've still a chance to escape. Hell, can
damn frog-men keep us here? Where's your nerve, man?"

A voice beside them made them turn in amazement. "You are men from
Earth?" it asked, in queerly accented English. "From Earth?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Astonishment held them as they saw who spoke. It was one of the green
men in the room, who had settled down by their side. A tall figure
with superb muscles and frank, clean countenance, his dark eyes afire
with eagerness.

"English?" Norman exclaimed. "You know English--you understand me?"

The other showed his teeth in a smile. "I know, yes. I'm Sarja, and I
learned to speak it from Fallas, in my city, before the Ralas caught
me."

"Fallas--" Norman repeated, puzzled; then suddenly he flamed. "By God,
he means Fellows!"

"Fallas, yes," said the other. "From the sky he fell into our city in
a strange flying-boat that was smashed. He was hurt but we cared for
him, and he taught me his speech, which I heard you talking now."

"Then Fellows is in your city now?" asked Hackett eagerly. "Where is
that?"

"Across this sea--back in the hills," the other waved. "It is far from
the sea but I was rash one day and came too near the water in my
flying-boat. The Ralas were out raiding and they saw me, caught me,
and brought me here. No escape now, until I die."

"The Ralas--you mean these frog-men?" Norman asked.

Sarja nodded. "Of course. They are the tyrants and oppressors of this
world. Our little world is but a tenth or less the size of your great
Earth which it circles, but it has its lands and rivers, and this one
great fresh-water sea into which the latter empty. In this sea long
ago developed the Ralas, the great frog-men who acquired such
intelligence and arts that they became lords of this world.

"Through the centuries, while on the land our races of green men have
been struggling upward, the Ralas have oppressed them. Long ago the
Ralas left all their other cities to build this one great amphibian
city at the sea's center. Entrance to it is only by the water-tunnel
from without, and being frog-people entrance thus is easy for them
since they can move for many minutes under water, though they drown
like any other breathing animal if kept under too long. Humans dare
not try to enter it thus by the water-tunnel, since, before they could
find it and make their way up through it, they would have drowned.

       *       *       *       *       *

"So the Ralas have ruled from this impregnable amphibian city. Its
colossal metal dome is invulnerable to ordinary attack, and though
solid and without openings it is always as light beneath the dome here
as outside, since the Ralas' scientists contrived light-condensers and
conductors that catch light outside and bring it in to release inside.
So when it is day outside the sunlight is as bright here, and when
night comes the Earth-light shines here the same as without.

"From this city their raiding parties have gone out endlessly to swoop
down on the cities of us green men. Since we learned to make
flying-boats like theirs, with molecular-motors, and to make the guns
like theirs that fire shells filled with annihilating force, we have
resisted them stoutly but their raids have not ceased. And always they
have brought their prisoners back in to this, their city.

"Tens of thousands of green men they have prisoned here like us, for
the sole purpose of supplying them with blood. For the Ralas live on
this blood alone, changing it chemically to fit their own bodies and
then taking it into their bodies. It eliminates all necessity for food
here for them. Every few days they drain blood from us, and since we
are well fed and cared for to keep us good blood-producers, we will be
here for a long time before we die."

"But haven't you made any attempt to get out of here--to escape?"
Norman asked.

Sarja smiled. "Who could escape the city of the Ralas? In all recorded
history it has never been done, for even if by some miracle you got a
flying-boat, the opening of the water-tunnel that leads outward is
guarded always."

"Guards or no guards, we're going to try it and not sit here to
furnish blood for the Ralas," Norman declared. "Are you willing to
help, to try to get to Fellows and your city?"

The green man considered. "It is hopeless," he said, "but as well to
die beneath the force-shells of the Ralas as live out a lifetime here.
Yes, I will help, though I cannot see how you expect to escape even
from this room."

"I think we can manage that," Norman told him. "But first--not a word
to these others. We can't hope to escape with them all, and there is
no knowing what one might not betray us to the frog-men."

He went on then to outline to the other two the idea that had come to
him. Both exclaimed at the simpleness of the idea, though Sarja
remained somewhat doubtful. While Hackett slept, weak still from his
loss of blood, Norman had the green man scratch on the metal floor as
well as possible a crude map of the satellite's surface, and found
that the city, where Fellows was, seemed some hundreds of miles back
from the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

While they talked, the sunlight, apparently sourceless, that came
through the heavily barred windows of the room faded rapidly, and dusk
settled over the great amphibian city beneath the giant dome, kept
from total darkness by a silvery pervading light that Norman reflected
must be the light from Earth's great sphere. With the dusk's coming
the activities in the frog-city lessened greatly.

With dusk, too, frog-guards entered the room bearing long metal
troughs filled with a red jellylike substance, that they placed on
racks along the wall. As the guards withdrew the men in the room
rushed toward the troughs, elbowing each other aside and striking
each other to scoop up and eat as much of the red jelly as possible.
It was for all the world like the feeding of farm-animals, and Hackett
and Norman so sickened at the sight that they had no heart to try the
food. Sarja, though, had no such scruples and seemed to make a hearty
meal at one of the troughs.

After the meal the green men sought the bunks and soon were stretched
in sonorous slumber. It was, Norman reflected, exactly the existence
of domesticated animals--to eat and sleep and give food to their
masters. A deeper horror of the frog-men shook him, and a deeper
determination to escape them. He waited until all in the room were
sleeping before beckoning to Sarja and Hackett.

"Quiet now," he whispered to them. "If these others wake they'll make
such a clamor we won't have a chance in the world. Ready, Sarja?"

The green man nodded. "Yes, though I still think such a thing's
impossible."

"Probably is," Norman admitted. "But it's the one chance we've got,
the immensely greater strength of our Earth-muscle that the frog-men
must have forgotten when they put us in here."

They moved silently to the room's great barred door, outside which a
frog-guard paced. They waited until he had passed the door and on down
the hall, then Norman and Hackett and Sarja grasped together one of
the door's vertical bars. It was an inch and a half in thickness, of
solid metal, and it seemed ridiculous that any men could bend it by
the sheer strength of their muscles.

Norman, though, was relying on the fact that on the second satellite,
with its far lesser gravitational influence, their Earth-muscles gave
them enormous strength. He grasped the bar, Hackett and Sarja gripping
it below him, and then at a whispered word they pulled with all their
force. The bar resisted and again, with sweat starting on their
foreheads, they pulled. It gave a little.

       *       *       *       *       *

They shrank back from it as the guard returned, moving past. Then
grasping the bar again they bent all their force once more upon it.
Each effort saw it bending more, the opening in the door's bars
widening. They gave a final great wrench and the bent bar squealed a
little. They shrank back, appalled, but the guard had not heard or
noticed. He moved past it on his return along the hall, and no sooner
was past it than Norman squeezed through the opening and leaped
silently for the great frog-man's back.

It went down with a wild flurry of waving webbed paws and croaking
cries, stilled almost instantly by Norman's terrific blows. There was
silence then as Hackett and Sarja squeezed out after him, the
momentary clamor of the battle having aroused no one.

The three leaped together toward the stairs. In two great floating
leaps they were on the floor above, Hackett and Norman dragging Sarja
between them. They were not seen, were sailing in giant steps up
another stair, hopes rising high. The last stair--the roof-opening
above; and then from beneath a great croaking cry swelled instantly
into chorus of a alarmed shouts.

"They've found the door--the guard!" panted Hackett.

They were bursting out onto the roof. Frog-guards were on it who came
in a hopping rush toward them, force-pistols raised. But a giant leap
took Hackett among them, to amaze them for a moment with great
flailing blows. Sarja had leaped for the nearest flying-boat resting
on the roof, and was calling in a frantic voice to Norman and Hackett.
Norman was turning toward Hackett, the center of a wild combat, but
the latter emerged from it for a brief second to motion him
frantically back.

"No use, Norman--get away--get away!" he cried hoarsely, frenziedly.

"Hackett--for God's sake--!" Norman half-leaped to the other, but an
arm caught him, pulled him desperately onto the boat's surface. It was
Sarja, the long craft flying over the roof beneath his control.

"They come!" he panted. "Too late now--" Frog-men were pouring up onto
the roof from below. Sarja sent the craft rocketing upward, as Hackett
gestured them away for a last frantic time before going down beneath
the frog-men's onslaught.

       *       *       *       *       *

The roof and the combat on it dropped back and beneath them like a
stone as their craft ripped across the silvery dusk over the mighty
frog-city. They were shooting toward the city's center, toward the
green pool that was the entrance to the water-tunnel, while behind and
beneath an increasing clamor of alarm spread swiftly. Norman raged
futilely.

"Hackett--Hackett! We can't leave him--"

"Too late!" Sarja cried. "We cannot help him but only be captured
again. We escape now and come back--come back--"

The truth of it pierced Norman's brain even in the wild moment.
Hackett had fought and held back the frog-guards only that they might
escape. He shouted suddenly.

"Sarja--the water-tunnel!" A half-dozen boats with frog-guards on them
were rising round it in answer to the alarm!

"The force-gun!" cried the green man. "Beside you--!"

Norman whirled, glimpsed the long tube on its swivel beside him,
trained it on the boats rising ahead as they rocketed nearer. He
fumbled frantically at a catch at the gun's rear, then felt a stream
of shells flicking out of it. Two of the boats ahead vanished as the
shells released their annihilating force, another sagged and fell.
From the remaining three invisible force-shells flicked around them,
but in an instant Sarja had whirled the boat through them and down
into the water-tunnel!

Norman clung desperately to his seat as the boat flashed down through
the waters, and then, as Sarja sent it flying out through the great
tunnel's waters, glimpsed, close behind, the beams of the three Rala
boats as they pursued them through the tunnel, overtaking them. Could
the force-shells be fired under water? Norman did not know, but
desperately he swung the force-gun back as they rushed through the
waters, and pressed the catch. An instant later beams and boats behind
them in the tunnel vanished.

His lungs were afire; it seemed that he must open them to the
strangling water. The boat was ripping the waters at such tremendous
speed that he felt himself being torn from his hold on it. Pain seemed
poured like molten metal through his chest--he could hold out no
longer; and then the boat stabbed up from the waters into clear air!

       *       *       *       *       *

Norman panted, sobbed. Behind them rose the colossal metal dome of the
frog-city, gleaming dully in the silvery light that flooded the
far-stretching seas. That light poured down from a stupendous silver
crescent in the night skies. Norman saw dully the dark outlines on it
before he remembered. Earth! He laughed a little hysterically. Sarja
was driving the flying-boat out over the sea and away from the
frog-city at enormous speed. At last he glanced back. Far behind them
lay the great dome and up around it gleaming lights were pouring,
lights of pursuing Rala boats.

"We escape," Sarja cried, "the city of the Ralas, from which none ever
before escaped!"

Remembrance smote Norman. "Hackett! Held off those frog-men so we
could get away--we'll come back for him, by God!"

"We come back!" said Sarja. "We come back with all the green men of
this world to the Ralas' city, yes! I know what Fallas has planned."

"Can you find your way to him--to your city?" Norman asked.

Sarja nodded, looking upward. "Before the next sun has come and gone
we can reach it."

The boat flew onward, and the great dome and the searching lights
around it dropped beneath the horizon. Norman felt the warm wind
drying his drenched garments as they rushed onward. Crouched on the
boat he gazed up toward the silver crescent of Earth sinking toward
the horizon ahead. That meant, he told himself, that the satellite
turned slowly on its axis as it whirled around Earth. It came to him
that its night and day periods must be highly irregular.

When the sun climbed from the waters behind them they were flying
still over a boundless waste of waters, but soon they sighted on the
horizon ahead the thin green line of land. Sarja slowed as they
reached it, took his bearings, and sent the craft flying onward.

They passed over a green coastal plain and then over low hills joined
in long chains and mantled by dense and mighty jungles, towering green
growths of unfamiliar appearance to Norman. He thought he glimpsed,
more than once, huge beastlike forms moving in them. He did see twice
in the jungles great clearings where were fair-sized cities of
bright-green buildings, a metal tower rising from each. But when he
pointed to them Sarja shook his head.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last, as they passed over another range of hills and came into
sight of a third green city with its looming tower, the other pointed,
his face alight.

"My city," he said. "Fallas there."

Fellows! Norman's heart beat faster.

They shot closer and lower and he saw that the buildings were
obviously green to lend them a certain protective coloration similar
to that of the green jungles around them. The tower with its
surmounting cage puzzled him though, but before he could ask Sarja
concerning it his answer came in a different way. A long metal tube
poked slowly out of the cage on the tower's top and sent a hail of
force-shells flicking around them.

"They're firing on us!" Norman cried. "This can't be your city!"

"They see our black boat!" Sarja exclaimed. "They think we're Rala
raiders and unless we let them know they'll shoot us out of the air!
Stand up--wave to them--!"

Both Norman and Sarja sprang to their feet and waved wildly to those
in the tower-cage, their flying-boat drifting slowly forward.
Instantly the force-shells ceased to hail toward them, and as they
moved nearer a sirenlike signal broke from the cage. At once scores of
flying-boats like their own, but glittering metal instead of black,
shot up from the city where they had lain until now, and surrounded
them.

As Sarja called in his own tongue to them the green men on the
surrounding boats broke into resounding cries. They shot down toward
the city, Norman gazing tensely. Great crowds of green men in their
dark tunics had swarmed out into its streets with the passing of the
alarm, and their craft and the others came to rest in an open square
that was the juncture of several streets.

The green men that crowded excitedly about Norman and Sarja gave way
to a half-dozen hurrying into the square from the greatest of the
buildings facing on it. All but one were green men like the others.
But that one--the laughing-eyed tanned face--the worn brown clothing,
the curious huge steps with which he came--Norman's heart leapt.

"Fellows!"

"Great God--Norman!" The other's face was thunderstruck. "Norman--how
by all that's holy did you get here?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Norman, mind and body strained to the breaking point, was incoherent.
"We guessed how you'd gone--the second satellite, Fellows--Hackett
and I came after you--taken to that frog-city--"

As Norman choked the tale, Fellows' face was a study. And when it was
finished he swallowed, and gripped Norman's hand viselike.

"And you and Hackett figured it out and came after me--took that risk?
Crazy, both of you. Crazy--"

"Fellows, Hackett's still there, if he's alive! In the Rala city!"

Fellows' voice was grim, quick. "We'll have him out. Norman, if he
still lives. And living or dead, the Ralas will pay soon for this and
for all they've done upon this world in ages. Their time nears--yes."

He led Norman, excited throngs of the green men about them, into the
great building from which he had emerged. There were big rooms inside,
workshops and laboratories that Norman but vaguely glimpsed in
passing. The room to which the other led him was one with a long metal
couch. Norman stretched protestingly upon it at the other's bidding,
drifted off almost at once into sleep.

He woke to find the sunlight that had filled the room gone and
replaced by the silvery Earth-light. From the window he saw that the
silver-lit city outside now held tremendous activity, immense hordes
of green men surging through it with masses of weapons and equipment,
flying-boats pouring down out of the night from all directions. He
turned as the door of the room clicked open behind him. It was his old
friend Fellows.

"I thought you'd be awake by now, Norman. Feeling fit?"

"As though I'd slept a week," Norman said, and the other laughed his
old care-free laugh.

"You almost have, at that. Two days and nights you've slept, but it
all adds up to hardly more than a dozen hours."

"This world!" Norman's voice held all his incredulity. "To think that
we should be on it--a second satellite of Earth's--it seems almost
beyond belief."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Sometimes it seems so to me, too," Fellows said thoughtfully. "But
it's not a bad world--not the human part of it, at least. When this
satellite's atmosphere caught me and pitchforked me down among these
green men, smashing the plane and almost myself, they took care of me.
You say three others vanished as I did? I never heard of them here;
they must have crashed into the sea or jungles. Of course, I'd have
got back to Earth on one of these flying-boats if I'd been able, but
their molecular power won't take them far from this world's surface,
so I couldn't.

"As it was, the green men cared for me, and when I found how those
frog-men have dominated this world for ages, how that city of the
Ralas has spread endless terror among the humans here, I resolved to
smash those monsters whatever I did. I taught some of the green men
like Sarja my own speech, later learning theirs, and in the weeks I've
been here I've been working out a way to smash the Ralas.

"You know that amphibian city is almost impregnable because humans can
hardly live long enough under the water to get into it, let alone
fight under water as the frog-men can. To meet them on even terms the
green men needed diving-helmets with an oxygen supply. They'd never
heard of such an idea, too afraid of the sea ever to experiment in it,
but I convinced them and they've made enough helmets for all their
forces. In them they can meet the Ralas under water on equal terms.

"And there's a chance we can destroy that whole Rala city with their
help. It's built on a giant pedestal of rock rising from the sea's
floor, as you saw, and I've had some of the green men make huge
force-shells or force-bombs that ought to be powerful enough to split
that pedestal beneath the city. If we can get a chance to place those
bombs it may smash the frog-men forever on this world. But one thing
is sure: we're going to get Hackett out if he still lives!"

"Then you're, going to attack the Rala city now?" Norman cried.

Fellows nodded grimly. "While you have slept all the forces of the
green men on this world have been gathering. Your coming has only
precipitated our plans, Norman--the whole soul of the green races has
been set upon this attack for weeks!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Norman, half bewildered at the swiftness with which events rushed upon
him, found himself striding with Fellows in great steps out through
the building into the great square. It was shadowed now by mass on
mass of flying-boats, crowded with green men, that hung over it and
over the streets. One boat, Sarja at its controls, waited on the
ground and as they entered and buckled themselves into the seats the
craft drove up to hang with the others.

A shattering cheer greeted them. Norman saw that in the silvery light
of Earth's great crescent there stretched over the city and
surrounding jungle now a veritable plain of flying-boats. On each were
green men and each bristled with force-guns, and had as many great
goggled helmets fastened to it as it had occupants. He glimpsed larger
boats loaded with huge metal cylinders--the force-bombs Fellows had
mentioned.

Fellows rose and spoke briefly in a clear voice to the assembled green
men on their craft, and another great shout roared from them, and from
these who watched in the city below. Then as he spoke a word, Sarja
sent their craft flying out over the city, and the great mass of
boats, fully a thousand in number, were hurtling in a compact column
after them.

Fellows leaned to Norman as the great column of purring craft shot on
over the silver-lit jungles. "We'll make straight for the Rala city
and try setting into it before they understand what's happening."

"Won't they have guards out?"

"Probably, but we can beat them back into the city before their whole
forces can come out on us. That's the only way in which we can get
inside and reach Hackett. And while we're attacking the force-bombs
can be placed, though I don't rely too much on them."

"If the attack only succeeds in getting us inside," Norman said,
grim-lipped, "we'll have a chance--"

"It's on the knees of the gods. These green men are doing an
unprecedented thing in attacking the Ralas, the masters of this world,
remember. But they've got ages of oppression to avenge; they'll
fight."

The fleet flew on, hills and rivers a silver-lit panorama unreeling
beneath them. Earth's crescent sank behind them, and by the time they
flashed out over the great fresh-water sea, the sun was rising like a
flaming eye from behind it. Land sank from sight behind and the green
men were silent, tense, as they saw stretching beneath only the gray
waters that for ages had been the base of the dread frog-men. But
still the fleet's column raced on.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last the column slowed. Far ahead the merest bulge broke the level
line where sky and waters met. The amphibian city of the Ralas! At
Fellows' order-the flying-boats sank downward until they moved just
above the waters. Another order made the green hosts don the grotesque
helmets. Norman found that while cumbersome their oxygen supply was
unfailing. They shot on again at highest speed, but as the gigantic
black dome of the frog-city grew in their vision there darted up from
around it suddenly a far-flung swarm of black spots.

"Rala boats!"

The muffled exclamation was Fellows'. There needed now no order on his
part, though. Like hawks, leaping for prey, the fleet of the green men
sprang through the air. Norman, clutching the force-gun between his
knees, had time only to see that the Rala craft were a few hundred in
number and that, contemptuous of the greater odds that favored these
humans they had so long oppressed, they were flying straight to meet
them. Then the two fleets met--and were spinning side by side above
the waters.

Norman saw the thing only as a wild whirl of Rala boats toward and
beside them, great green frog-men crowding the craft, their force-guns
hailing shells. Automatically, with the old air-fighting instinct, his
fingers had pressed the catch of the gun between his knees and as its
shells flicked toward the rushing boats he saw areas of nothingness
opening suddenly in their mass, shells striking and exploding in
annihilating invisibility there and in their own fleet.

The two fleets mingled and merged momentarily, the battle becoming a
thing of madness, a huge whirl of black and glittering flying-boats
together, striking shells exploding nothingness about them. The Ralas
were fighting like demons.

The merged, terrific combat lasted but moments; could last but
moments. Norman, his gun's magazine empty, seemed to see the mass of
struggling ships splittering, diverging; then saw that the black craft
were dropping, plummeting downward toward the waves! The Ralas,
stunned by that minute of terrific combat, were fleeing. Muffled cries
and cheers came from about him as the glittering flying-boats of the
green men shot after them. They crashed down into the waters and
curved deeply into their green-depths, toward the gigantic dome.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ahead the Rala boats were in flight toward their city, and now their
pursuers were like sharks striking after them. There in the depths the
force-guns of black and glittering boats alike were spitting, and
giant waves and underwater convulsions rocked pursued and pursuers as
the exploding shells annihilated boats and water about them. The
tunnel! Its round opening yawned in the looming wall ahead, and Norman
saw the Rala craft, reduced to scores in number, hurtling into it, to
rouse all the forces of the great amphibian city. Their own boats were
flashing into the opening after them. He glimpsed as he glanced back
for a moment the larger craft with the great force-bombs veering aside
behind them.

It was nightmare in the water-tunnel. Flashing beams of the craft
ahead and waters that rocked and smashed around them as in flight the
Ralas still rained back force-shells toward them in a chaos of action.
Once the frog-men turned to hold them back in the tunnel, but by sheer
weight the rushing ships of the green men crashed them onward. Boats
were going into nothingness all around them. A part of Norman's brain
wondered calmly why they survived even while another part kept his gun
again working, with refilled magazine. Fellows and Sarja were
grotesque shapes beside him. Abruptly the tunnel curved upward and as
they flashed up after the remaining Rala craft their boats ripped up
into clear air! They were beneath the giant dome!

The frog-men chased inward spread out in all directions over their
mighty, swarming city and across it a terrific clamor of alarm ran
instantly as the green men emerged after them! Norman saw flying-boats
beginning to rise across all the city and realized that moments would
see all the immense force of the Ralas, the thousands of craft they
could muster, pouring upon them. He pointed out over the city to a
block-like building, and shouted madly through his helmet to Fellows
and Sarja:

"Hackett!"

But already Sarja had sent their craft whirling across the city toward
the structure, half their fleet behind it, with part still emerging
from the water-tunnel. Rala boats rose before them, but nothing could
stop them now, their force-shells raining ahead to clear a path for
their meteor-flight. They shot down toward the block-structure, and
Norman, half-crazed by now, saw that to descend and enter was suicide
in the face of the frog-forces rising now over all the city. He cried
to Fellows, and with two of the guns as they swooped lower they
sprayed force-shells along the building's side.

       *       *       *       *       *

The shells struck and whiffed away the whole side, exposing the level
on the building's interior. Out from it rushed swarms of crazed green
men, sweeping aside the frog-men guards, while far over the city the
invading craft were loosing shells on the block-like buildings that
held the prisoners, tens of thousands of them swarming forth. In the
throng below as they raced madly forth Norman saw one, and shouted
wildly. The one brown garbed figure looked up, saw their boat swooping
lower, and leaped for it in a tremendous forty-foot spring that
brought his fingers to its edge. Norman pulled him frenziedly up.

"Norman!" he babbled. "In God's name--Fellows--!"

"That helmet, Hackett!" Fellows flung at him. "My God, look at those
prisoners--Norman!"

The countless thousands of green men released from the buildings whose
walls had vanished under the shells of the invaders had poured forth
to make the amphibian city a chaos of madness. Oblivious to all else
they were throwing themselves upon the city's crowding frog-men in a
battle whose ferocity was beyond belief, disregarding all else in this
supreme chance to wreak vengeance on the monstrous beings who had fed
upon their blood. In the incredible insanity of that raging fury the
craft of the green men hanging over the city were all but forgotten.

Suddenly the city and the mighty dome over it quivered violently, and
then again. There came from beneath a dull, vast, grinding roar.

"The great force-bombs!" Fellows screamed. "They've set them off--the
city's sinking--out of here, for the love of God!"

The boat whirled beneath Sarja's hands toward the pool of the
water-tunnel, all their fleet rushing with them. The grinding roar was
louder, terrible; dome and city were shaking violently now; but in the
insensate fury of their struggle the frog-men and their released
prisoners were hardly aware of it. The whole great dome seemed sinking
upon them and the city falling beneath it as Sarja's craft ripped down
into the tunnel's waters, and then out, at awful speed, as the great
tunnel's walls swayed and sank around them! They shot out into the
green depths from it to hear a dull, colossal crashing through the
waters from behind as the great pedestal of rock on which the city had
stood, shattered by the huge force-bombs, collapsed. And as their
boats flashed up into the open air they saw that the huge dome of the
city of the Ralas was gone.

Beneath them was only a titanic whirlpool of foaming waters in which
only the curved top of the settling dome was visible for a moment as
it sank slowly and ponderously downward, with a roar as of the roar of
falling worlds. Buckling, collapsing, sinking, it vanished in the
foam-wild sea with all the frog-men who for ages had ruled the second
satellite, and with all those prisoners who had at the last dragged
them down with them to death! Ripping off their helmets, with all the
green men shouting crazily about them, Norman and Fellows and Hackett
stared down at the colossal maelstrom in the waters that was the tomb
of the masters of a world.

Then the depression's sides collapsed, the waters rushing together ...
and beneath them was but troubled, tossing sea....

       *       *       *       *       *

Earth's great gray ball was overhead again and the sun was sinking
again to the horizon when the three soared upward in the long,
gleaming plane, its motor roaring. Norman, with Hackett and Fellows
crowding the narrow cabin beside him, waved with them through its
windows. For all around them were rising the flying-boats of the green
men.

They were waving wildly, shouting their farewells, Sarja's tall figure
erect at the prow of one. Insistent they had been that the three
should stay, the three through whom the monstrous age-old tyranny of
the frog-men had been lifted, but Earth-sickness was on them, and they
had flown to where the plane lay still unharmed among the reeds, a
hundred willing hands dragging it forth for the take-off.

The plane soared higher, motor thundering, and they saw the
flying-boats sinking back from around them. They caught the wave of
Sarja's hand still from the highest, and then that, too, was gone.

Upward they flew toward the great gray sphere, their eyes on the dark
outlines of its continents and on one continent. Higher--higher--green
land and gray tea receding beneath them; Hackett and Fellows intent
and eager as Norman kept the plane rising. The satellite lay, a
greenish globe, under them. And as they went higher still a rushing
sound came louder to their ears.

"The edge of the satellite's atmosphere?" Fellows asked, as Norman
nodded.

"We're almost to it--here we go!"

As he shot the plane higher, great forces smote it, gray Earth and
green satellite and yellow sun gyrating round it as it reeled and
plunged. Then suddenly it was falling steadily, gray Earth and its
dark continent now beneath, while with a dwindling rushing roar its
second satellite whirled away above them, passing and vanishing.
Passing as though, to Norman it seemed, all their strange sojourn on
it were passing; the frog-men and their mighty city, Sarja and their
mad flight, the green men and the last terrific battle; all whirling
away--whirling away.


HISTORIC EXPERIMENT PROVES EARTH'S ROTATION

The famous experiment which proves that the "earth do move" by letting
the observer actually see it twisting underneath his feet, an
experiment invented by the French mathematician Jean B. L. Foucault
nearly a century ago was repeated recently under unusually impressive
circumstances before an international scientific congress at Florence,
Italy, the same city where Galileo once was persecuted for holding the
same opinion.

From the center of the dome of the Church of Santa Maria di Fiore,
Father Guido Alfani, director of the Astronomical Observatory,
suspended a 200-pound weight on a wire 150 feet long. On the bottom of
this weight was a tiny projecting point which traced a line on a
table-top sprinkled with sand, as the great pendulum swung slowly back
and forth. At a given signal Father Alfani set the pendulum to
swinging. While the assembled scientists watched it, slowly the line
traced across the sand table-top changed direction.

As Foucault proved long ago and as the watching scientists well knew,
the table was being twisted underneath the pendulum by the rotation of
the earth.


A REVOLUTIONARY AIRPLANE

A new airplane propeller has recently been patented by J. Kalmanson of
Brooklyn, N. Y. Greater speed and marked saving in fuel is claimed for
the invention, which may be attached to any type of airplane.

The device is in two parts, which may be used separately as front and
rear propellers or combined into a single blade. The principle is that
the front one acts to bring air to the other, giving the propeller
more of a hold, so to speak, and greater power. This is accomplished
by four air-spoons, one on each side of each blade of the propeller.

It is said that the device can double the speed of an airplane and
raise it from the ground in ninety feet instead of the 200 feet most
airplanes now require. It is also claimed that the new propeller will
prevent the plane from making a nose drive unless the pilot forces it
to do so, and enable it to make a safe landing within a short
distance. Because of the increase in power and speed, the device would
save a large amount of gasoline and oil, as well as guarding the motor
from part of the strain on it.

The device is said to be also applicable to ships, the same principle
operating in water as well as air.




Silver Dome

_By Harl Vincent_

[Illustration: _Orris led the way to a great underground city._]

[Sidenote: In her deep-buried kingdom of Theros, Phaestra reveals the
amazing secret of the Silver Dome.]


In a secluded spot among the hills of northern New Jersey stood the
old DeBost mansion, a rambling frame structure of many wings and
gables that was well-nigh hidden from the road by the half-mile or
more of second-growth timber which intervened. High on the hill it
stood, and it was only by virtue of its altitude that an occasional
glimpse might be obtained of weatherbeaten gable or partly
tumbled-down chimney. The place was reputed to be haunted since the
death of old DeBost, some seven years previously, and the path which
had once been a winding driveway was now seldom trod by human foot.

It was now two years since Edwin Leland bought the estate for a song
and took up his residence in the gloomy old house. And it had then
been vacant for five years since DeBost shot himself in the northeast
bedroom. Leland's associates were sure he would repent of his bargain
in a very short time, but he stayed on and on in the place, with no
company save that of his man-servant, an aged hunch-back who was
known to outsiders only as Thomas.

Leland was a scientist of note before he buried himself in the DeBost
place, and had been employed in the New York research laboratory of
one of the large electrical manufacturers, where he was much admired
and not a little envied by his fellow workers. These knew almost
nothing of his habits or of his personal affairs, and were much
surprised when he announced one day that he had come into a sizable
fortune and was leaving the organization to go in for private research
and study. Attempts to dissuade him were of no avail, and the purchase
of the DeBost property followed, after which Leland dropped from sight
for nearly two years.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, on a blustery winter day, a strange telephone call was received
at the laboratory where he had previously worked. It was from old
Thomas, out there in the DeBost mansion, and his quavering voice asked
for Frank Rowley, the genial young engineer whose work had been most
closely associated with Leland's.

"Oh, Mr. Rowley," wailed the old man, when Frank responded to the
call, "I wish you would come out here right away. The master has been
acting very queerly of late, and to-day he has locked himself in his
laboratory and will not answer my knocks."

"Why don't you break in the door?" asked Frank, looking through the
window at the snow storm that still raged.

"I thought of that, Mr. Rowley, but it is of oak and very thick.
Besides, it is bound with steel or iron straps and is beyond my
powers."

"Why not call the police?" growled Frank. He did not relish the idea
of a sixty or seventy mile drive in the blizzard.

"Oh--no--no--no!" Old Thomas was panicky at the suggestion. "The
master told me he'd kill me if I ever did that."

Before Frank could formulate a reply, there came a sharp gasp from the
other end of the line, a wailing cry and a thud as of a falling body;
then silence. All efforts to raise Leland's number merely resulted in
"busy" or "line out of order" reports.

Frank Rowley was genuinely concerned. Though he had never been a close
friend of Leland's, the two had worked on many a knotty problem
together and were in daily contact during the nearly ten years that
the other man had worked in the same laboratory.

"Say, Tommy," said Frank, replacing the receiver and turning to his
friend, Arnold Thompson, who sat at an adjoining desk, "something has
happened out at Leland's place in Sussex County. Want to take a drive
out there with me?"

"What? On a day like this? Why not take the train?"

"Don't be foolish, Tommy," said Frank. "The place is eight miles from
the nearest station, which is a flag stop out in the wilds. And, even
if you could find a cab there--which you couldn't--there isn't a taxi
driver in Jersey who'd take you up into those mountains on a day like
this. No, we'll have to drive. It'll be okay. I've got chains on the
rear and a heater in the old coupe, so it shouldn't be so bad. What do
you say?"

So Tommy, who usually followed wherever Frank led, was prevailed upon
to make the trip. He had no particular feeling for Leland, but he
sensed an adventure, and, in Frank's company, he could ask for no
more.

       *       *       *       *       *

Frank was a careful driver, and three hours were required to make the
sixty-mile journey. Consequently, it was late in the afternoon when
they arrived at the old DeBost estate. It had stopped snowing, but the
drifts were deep in spots, and Frank soon found that the car could not
be driven through the winding path from the road to the house. So
they left it half buried in a drift and proceeded on foot.

It was a laborious task they had undertaken, and, by the time they set
foot on the dilapidated porch, even Frank, husky and athletic as was
his build, was puffing and snorting from his exertions. Little Tommy,
who tipped the scales at less than a hundred and twenty, could hardly
speak. They both were wet to the waist and in none too good humor.

"Holy smoke!" gasped Tommy, stamping the clinging snow from his sodden
trouser legs and shoes, "if it snows any more, how in Sam Hill are we
going to get out of this place?"

"Rotten trip I let you in for Tommy," growled Frank, "and I hope
Leland's worth it. But, darn it all, I just had to come."

"It's all right with me, Frank. And maybe it'll be worth it yet.
Look--the front door's open."

       *       *       *       *       *

He pointed to the huge oaken door and Frank saw that it was ajar. The
snow on the porch was not deep and they saw that footprints led from
the open door to a corner of the porch. At that point the snow on the
railing was disturbed, as if a hurrying man had clung to it a moment
before jumping over and into the drifts below. But the tracks led no
further, for the drifting snow had covered all excepting a hollow
where some body had landed.

"Thomas!" exclaimed Frank. "And he was in a hustle, by the looks of
the tracks. Bet he was frightened while at the telephone and beat it."

They entered the house and closed the door behind them. It was growing
quite dark and Frank searched for the light switch. This was near the
door, and, at pressure on the upper button, the spacious old hall with
its open staircase was revealed dimly by the single remaining bulb in
a cluster set in the center of the high ceiling. The hall was
unfurnished, excepting for a telephone table and chair, the chair
having fallen to the floor and the receiver of the telephone dangling
from the edge of the table by its cord.

"You must have heard the chair fall," commented Tommy, "and it sure
does look as if Thomas left in a hurry. Wonder what it was that
frightened him?"

The house was eerily silent and the words echoed awesomely through the
adjoining rooms which connected with the hall through large open
doorways.

"Spooky place, isn't it?" returned Frank.

       *       *       *       *       *

And then they were both startled into immobility by a rumble that
seemed to shake the foundations of the house. Heavier and heavier
became this vibration, as if some large machine was coming up to
speed. Louder and louder grew the rumble until it seemed that the
rickety old house must be shaken down about their ears. Then there
came a whistling scream from the depths of the earth--from far
underground it seemed to be--and this mounted in pitch until their
eardrums tingled. Then abruptly the sounds ceased, the vibration
stopped, and once more there was the eery silence.

Rather white-faced, Tommy gazed at Frank.

"No wonder old Thomas beat it!" he said. "What on earth do you suppose
that is?"

"Search me," replied Frank. "But whatever it is, I'll bet it has
something to do with Leland's strange actions. And we're going to find
out."

He had with him the large flashlamp from the car, and, by its light,
the two made their way from room to room searching for the iron-bound
door mentioned by Thomas.

They found all rooms on the first and second floors dusty and unused
with the exception of two bedrooms, the kitchen and pantry, and the
library. It was a gloomy and spooky old house. Floor boards creaked
startlingly and unexpectedly and the sound of their footsteps echoed
dismally.

"Where in time is that laboratory of Leland's?" exclaimed Frank, his
ruddy features showing impatient annoyance, exaggerated to an
appearance of ferocity by the light of the flashlamp.

"How about the cellar?" suggested Tommy.

"Probably where it is," agreed Frank, "but I don't relish this job so
much. I'd hate to find Leland stiff down there, if that's where he
is."

"Me, too," said Tommy. "But we're here now, so let's finish the job
and get back home. It's cold here, too."

"You said it. No steam in the pipes at all. He must have let the fire
go out in his furnace, and that's probably in the cellar too--usually
is."

       *       *       *       *       *

While talking, Frank had opened each of the four doors that opened
from the kitchen, and the fourth revealed a stairway that led into the
blackness beneath. With the beam of his torch directed at the steps,
he proceeded to descend, and Tommy followed carefully. There was no
light button at the head of the stairs, where it would have been
placed in a more modern house, and it was not until they had reached
the furnace room that they located a light fixture with a pull cord.
An ordinary cellar, with furnace, coal bin, and a conglomeration of
dust-covered trunks and discarded furniture, was revealed. And, at its
far end, was the iron-bound door.

The door was locked and could not be shaken by the combined efforts of
the two men.

"Have to have a battering ram," grunted Frank, casting about for a
suitable implement.

"Here you are," called Tommy, after a moment's search. "Just the thing
we are looking for."

       *       *       *       *       *

He had come upon a pile of logs, and one of these, evidently a section
of an old telephone pole, was of some ten or twelve inches diameter
and about fifteen feet long. Frank pounced upon it eagerly, and,
supporting most of the weight himself, led the attack on the heavy
oak door with the iron bands.

No sound from within greeted the thunderous poundings. Clearly, if
Leland was behind that door, he was either dead or unconscious.

Finally the double lock gave way and Tommy and Frank were precipitated
headlong into the brightly lighted room beyond. Recovering their
balance, they took stock of their surroundings and were amazed at what
they saw--a huge laboratory, fitted out with every modern appliance
that money could buy. A completely equipped machine shop there was;
bench after bench covered with the familiar paraphernalia of the
chemical and physical laboratory; huge retorts and stills; complicated
electrical equipments; dozens of cabinets holding crucibles, flasks,
bottles, glass tubing, and what not.

"Good Lord!" gasped Tommy. "Here's a laboratory to more than match our
own. Why, Leland's got a fortune invested here!"

"I should say so. And a lot of stuff that our company does not even
have. Some of it I don't know even the use of. But where is Leland?"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no sign of the man they had come to help. He was not in the
laboratory, though the door had been locked from within and the lights
left burning throughout.

With painstaking care they searched every nook and cranny of the large
single room and were about to give up in despair when Tommy happened
to observe an ivory button set into the wall at the only point in the
room where there were no machines or benches at hand. Experimentally
he pressed the button, and, at the answering rumble from under his
feet, jumped back in alarm. Slowly there opened in the paneled oak
wall a rectangular door, a door of large enough size to admit a man.
From the recess beyond there came a breath of air, foul with the
musty odor of decayed vegetation, dank as the air of a tomb.

"Ah-h-h!" breathed Frank. "So that is where Ed Leland is hiding! The
secret retreat of the gloomy scientist!"

He spoke half jestingly, yet when he squeezed his stalwart bulk
through the opening and flashed the beam of his light into the
darkness of a narrow passage ahead he was assailed with vague
forebodings. Tommy followed close behind and spoke not a word.

       *       *       *       *       *

The passage floor was thick with dust, but the marks of many footsteps
going and returning gave mute evidence of the frequency of Leland's
visits. The air was heavy and oppressive and the temperature and
humidity increased as they progressed along the winding length of the
rock-walled passageway. The floor sloped, ever downward and, in spots,
was slippery with slimy seepage. It seemed that they turned back on
their course on several occasions but were descending deeper and
deeper into the heart of the mountain. Then, abruptly, the passage
ended at the mouth of a shaft, which dropped vertically from almost
beneath their feet.

"Whew!" exclaimed Frank. "Another step and I'd have dropped into it.
That's probably what happened to Leland."

He knelt at the rim of the circular opening and looked into the depths
of the pit, Tommy following suit. The feeble ray of the flashlight was
lost in the blackness below.

"Say, Frank," whispered Tommy, "turn off the flash. I think I saw a
light down there."

And, with the snapping of the catch, there came darkness. But, miles
below them, it seemed, there was a tiny pin-point of brilliance--an
eery green light that was like a wavering phosphorescence of
will-o'-the-wisp. For a moment it shone and was gone. Then came the
dreadful vibration they had experienced in the hall of the house--the
whistling scream that grew louder and louder until it seemed they
must be deafened. The penetrating wail rose from the depths of the
pit, and the vibration was all around them, in the damp rock floor on
which they knelt, and in the very air of the cavern. Hastily Frank
snapped on the light of his flash.

"Oh boy!" he whispered. "Leland is certainly up to something down
there and no mistake! How're we going to get down?"

"Get down?" asked Tommy. "You don't want to go down there, do you?"

"Sure thing. We're this far now and, by George, we're going to find
out all there is to learn."

"How deep do you suppose it is?"

"Pretty deep, Tommy. But we can get an idea by dropping a stone and
counting the seconds until it strikes."

       *       *       *       *       *

He played the light of the flash over the floor and soon located a
smooth round stone of the size of a baseball. This he tossed over the
rim of the pit and awaited results.

"Good grief!" exclaimed Tommy. "It's not falling!"

What he said was true, for the stone poised lightly over the opening
and drifted like a feather. Then slowly it moved, settling gradually
into oblivion. Frank turned the flash downward and they watched in
astonishment as the two-pound pebble floated deliberately down the
center of the shaft at the rate of not more than one foot in each
second.

"Well, I'll be doggoned," breathed Frank admiringly. "Leland has done
it. He has conquered gravity. For, in that pit at least, there is no
gravity, or at any rate not enough to mention. It has been almost
completely counteracted by some force he has discovered and now we
know how to follow him down there. Come on Tommy, let's go!"

And, suiting action to his words, Frank jumped into the mouth of the
pit where he bobbed about for a moment as if he had jumped into a
pool of water. Then slowly he sank from view, and Tommy followed him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a most unique experience, that drop into the heart of the
mountain. Practically weightless, the two young men found it quite
difficult to negotiate the passage. For the first hundred or more feet
they continued to bump about in the narrow shaft and each sustained
painful bruises before he learned that the best and simplest method of
accommodating himself to the strange condition was to remain
absolutely motionless and allow the greatly weakened gravity to take
its course. Each movement of an arm or leg was accompanied by a change
in direction of movement, and contact with the hard stone walls
followed. If they endeavored to push themselves from the contact the
result was likely to be an even more serious bump on the opposite side
of the shaft. So they continued the leisurely drop into the unknown
depth of the pit.

Frank had turned off the flashlamp, for its battery was giving out and
he wished to conserve its remaining energy for eventualities. Thus
they were in Stygian darkness for nearly a half-hour, though the green
luminosity far beneath them grew stronger with each passing minute. It
now revealed itself as a clearly defined disc of light that flickered
and sputtered continually, frequently lighting the lower end of the
shaft with an unusual burst of brilliance. Remotely distant it seemed
though, and unconscionably slow in drawing nearer.

"How far do you think we must drop?" called Tommy to Frank, who was
probably fifty feet below him in the shaft.

"Well, I figure we have fallen about a thousand feet so far," came the
reply, "and my guess is that we are about one third of the way down."

"Then this shaft is over a half-mile deep, you think?"

"Yes, at least a thousand yards, I should say. And I hope his gravity
neutralizing machinery doesn't quit all of a sudden and let us down."

"Me, too," called Tommy, who had not thought of that possibility.

       *       *       *       *       *

This was no joke, this falling into an unknown region so far beneath
the surface of good old mother earth, thought Tommy. And how they
would ever return was another thing that was not so funny. Frank was
always rushing into things like this without counting the possible
cost and--well--this might be the last time.

Gradually the mysterious light became stronger and soon they could
make out the conformation of the rock walls they were passing at such
a snail's pace. Layers of vari-colored rock showed here and there,
and, at one point there was a stratum of gold-bearing or mica-filled
rock that glistened with a million reflections and re-reflections. The
air grew warmer and more humid as they neared the mysterious light
source. They moved steadily, without acceleration, and Frank estimated
the rate at about forty feet a minute. Then, with blinding suddenness,
the light was immediately below and they drifted into a tremendous
cavern that was illuminated by its glow.

Directly beneath the lower end of the shaft through which they had
passed, there was a glowing disc of metal about fifteen feet in
diameter. They drifted to its surface and sprawled awkwardly where
they fell. Scrambling to gain a footing, they bounced and floated
about like toy balloons before realizing that it would be necessary to
creep slowly from the influence of that repelling force which had made
the long drop possible without injury. Gravity met them at the disc's
edge with what seemed to be unusual violence.

       *       *       *       *       *

At first it seemed that their bodies weighed twice the normal amount,
but this feeling soon passed and they looked about them with
incredulous amazement. The metal disc was quite evidently the medium
through which the repelling force was set up in the shaft, and to this
disc was connected a series of heavy cables that led to a pedestal
nearby. On the pedestal was a controlling lever and this moved over a
quadrant that was graduated in degrees, one end of the quadrant being
labeled "Up" and the other "Down." The lever now stood at a point but
a very few degrees from the center or "Zero" mark and on the down
side. Frank pulled this lever over to the full "Down" position and
they found that they could walk over the disc with normal gravity.

"I suppose," said Frank, "that if the lever is at the other end of the
scale one would fall upward with full gravity acceleration--reversed.
At zero, gravity is exactly neutralized, and the intermediate
positions are useful in conveying materials or human beings up and
down the shaft as desired. Very clever; but what is the reason for it
all?"

In the precise center of the great cavern there was a dome or
hemisphere of polished metal, and it was from this dome that the eery
light emanated. At times, when the light died down, this dome gleamed
with dull flickerings that threatened to vanish entirely. Then
suddenly it would resume full brilliance, and the sight was marvelous
beyond description. A slight hissing sound came from the direction of
the dome, and this varied in intensity as did the light.

"Gosh!" said Tommy. "That looks like silver to me. And, if it is, what
a wealthy man our friend Leland has become. He has spent his fortune
well, even if he used it all to get to this."

"Yes, but where is he?" commented Frank. Then: "Leland! Leland!" he
called.

       *       *       *       *       *

His voice echoed through the huge vault and re-echoed hollowly. But
there was no reply save renewed flickerings from the dome.

Leaving the vicinity of the gravity disc, the two men advanced in the
direction of the shining dome, which was about a quarter-mile from
where they stood. Both perspired freely, for the air was very close
and the temperature high. But the light of the dome was as cold as the
light of a firefly and they had no hesitancy in drawing near. It was a
beautiful sight, this dome of silver with its flickering lights and
perfect contour.

"By George, I believe it _is_ silver," exclaimed Frank, when they were
within a few feet of the dome. "No other metal has that precise color.
And look! There is a wheelbarrow and some mining tools. Leland has
been cutting away some of the material."

Sure enough, there was indisputable evidence of the truth of his
statement. And the material was undoubtedly silver!

"Silver Dome," breathed Tommy, holding a lump of the metal in his
hand. "A solid dome of pure silver--fifty feet high and a hundred in
diameter. How much does that figure in dollars and cents, Frank?"

"Maybe it isn't solid," said Frank dryly, "though it's worth a
sizeable fortune even if it is hollow. And we haven't found Leland."

       *       *       *       *       *

They circled the dome twice and looked into every corner of the great
cavern, but there was no sign of the man for whom they searched. The
wheelbarrow was half filled with lumps of the heavy metal, and maul
and drill lay where they had been dropped by the lone miner. A cavity
three feet across, and as many deep, appeared in the side of the dome
to show that considerably more than one wheelbarrow load had been
removed.

"Funny," grunted Tommy. "Seems almost like the old dome had swallowed
him up."

At his words there came the terrific vibration. The light of the dome
died out, leaving them in utter darkness, and from its interior there
rose the mounting scream that had frightened old Thomas away. From so
close by it was hideous, devastating; and the two men clung to each
other in fright, expecting momentarily that the earth would give way
beneath their feet and precipitate them into some terrible depth from
which there could be no return.

Then the sound abruptly ceased and a gleam of light came from under
the dome of silver. A crack appeared between its lower edge and the
rocky floor of the cavern, and through this crack there shone a light
of dazzling brilliancy--a warm light of rosy hue. Wider grew the
opening until there was a full three feet between the floor and the
bottom of the dome. Impelled by some irresistible force from within,
the two men stumbled blindly to the opening, fell to the floor and
rolled inside.

There was a heavy thud and the dome had returned to its normal
position, with Frank and Tommy prisoners within its spacious hollow.
The warm light bathed them with fearful intensity for a moment, then
faded to a rosy glow that dulled their senses and quieted their
nerves. Morpheus claimed them.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Frank awoke he found himself between silken covers, and for a
moment he gazed thoughtfully at a high arched ceiling that was
entirely unfamiliar. Then, remembering, he sprang from the downy bed
to his feet. The room, the furnishings, his silken robe, everything
was strange. His bed, he saw, was a high one, and the frame was of the
same gleaming silver as the dome under which they had been trapped.
The arched ceiling glowed softly with the same rosy hue as had the
inner surface of the dome. A large pool of water invited him, the
surface of the pool being no more than a foot below the point where it
was built into the tile floor of the room. A large open doorway
connected with a similar adjoining room, where he suspected Tommy had
been taken. On his bare toes, he moved silently to the other room and
saw that his guess had been correct. Tommy lay sleeping quietly
beneath covers as soft as his own and amidst equal luxury of
surroundings.

"Well," he whispered, "this doesn't look as though we would come to
any harm. And I might as well take a dive in that pool."

Returning to his own room, he removed the silken garment with which he
had been provided and was quietly immersed in the cool, invigorating
water of the bath. His head cleared instantly.

"Hi there!" called Tommy from the doorway. "Why didn't you wake me up?
Where are we, anyway?"

With dripping head and shoulders above the water, Frank was compelled
to laugh at the sleepy-eyed, wondering expression on the blue-jowled
face of his friend. "Thought you were dead to the world," he returned,
"you old sleepy-head. And I don't know where we are, excepting that it
is somewhere under the silver dome. What's more, I don't much care.
You should get into this water. It's great!"

       *       *       *       *       *

So saying, he dived to the bottom of the pool and stood on his hands,
his feet waving ludicrously above the surface. Tommy sniffed once and
then made a quick dash for the pool in his own room. He was not to be
outdone by his more energetic partner.

A half-hour later, shaved and attired in their own garments, which had
been cleaned and pressed and hung neatly in the closets, they settled
themselves for a discussion of the situation. Having tried the doors
of both rooms and found them locked from the outside, there was no
other course open to them. They must await developments.

"Looks like Leland has quite an establishment down here inside the
mountain," ventured Tommy.

"Hm!" snorted Frank, "this place it none of Leland's work. He is
probably a prisoner here, as are we. He just stumbled on to the
silver dome and was captured by whatever race is living down here
beneath it, the same as we were. Who the real inhabitants are, and
what the purpose of all this is, remains to be seen."

"You think we are in friendly hands?"

"These quarters do not look much like prison cells, Tommy, but I must
admit that we are locked in. Anyhow, I'm not worrying, and we will
soon learn our fate and have to be ready to meet it. The people who
own this place must have everything they want, and they sure have some
scientific knowledge that is not known to us on the surface."

"Wonder if they are humans?"

"Certainly they are. You never heard of wild beasts sleeping in beds
like these, did you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Tommy laughed at he examined the exquisite hand-wrought figures on the
silver bedstead. "No, I didn't," he admitted; "but where on earth did
they come from, and what are they doing here?"

"You ask too many questions," replied Frank, shrugging his broad
shoulders. "We must simply wait for the answers to reveal themselves."

There was a soft rap at the door of Frank's room, where the two men
were talking.

"Come in," called Frank, chuckling at the idea of such consideration
from their captors.

A key rattled in the lock and the door swung open to admit the
handsomest man they had ever set eyes on. He was taller than Frank by
several inches, standing no less than six feet five in his thin-soled
sandals, and he carried himself with the air for an emperor. His
marble-white body was uncovered with the exception of a loin cloth of
silver hue, and lithe muscles rippled beneath his smooth skin as he
advanced to meet the prisoners. His head, surmounted by curly hair of
ebon darkness, was large, and his forehead high. The features were
classic and perfectly regular. The corners of his mouth drew upward in
a benign smile.

"Greetings," he said, in perfect English and in a soft voice, "to the
domain of Theros. You need fear no harm from our people and will be
returned to the upper world when the time comes. We hope to make your
stay with us enjoyable and instructive, and that you will carry back
kind memories of us. The morning meal awaits you now."

       *       *       *       *       *

So taken aback were the two young Americans that they stared foolishly
agape for a space. Then a tinkling laugh from the tall stranger set
them once more at ease.

"You will pardon us, I hope," apologized Frank, "but this is all so
unexpected and so unbelievable that your words struck me speechless.
And I know that my friend was similarly affected--We place ourselves
in your hands."

The handsome giant nodded understanding. "No offense was taken," he
murmured, "since none was intended. And your feelings are not to be
wondered at. You may call me Orrin."

He turned toward the open door and signified that they were to follow
him. They fell in at his side with alacrity, both suddenly realizing
that they were very hungry.

They followed in silent wonderment as Orrin led the way to a broad
balcony that overlooked a great underground city--a city lighted by the
soft glow from some vast lighting system incorporated in its vaulted
ceiling high overhead. The balcony was many levels above the streets,
which were alive with active beings of similar appearance to Orrin,
these speeding hither and yon by means of the many lanes of traveling
ways of which the streets were composed. The buildings--endless rows of
them lining the orderly streets--were octagonal in shape and rose to
the height of about twenty stories, as nearly as could be judged by
earthly standards. There were no windows, but at about every fifth floor
there was an outer silver-railed balcony similar to the one on which
they walked. The air was filled with bowl-shaped flying ships that sped
over the roof tops in endless procession and without visible means of
support or propulsion. Yet the general effect of the busy scene was one
of precise orderliness, unmarred by confusion or distracting noises.

       *       *       *       *       *

Orrin vouchsafed no explanations and they soon reentered the large
building of which the balcony was a part. Here they were conducted to
a sumptuously furnished dining room where their breakfast awaited
them.

During the meal, which consisted of several courses of fruits and
cereals entirely strange to Frank and Tommy, they were tended by Orrin
with the utmost deference and most painstaking attention. He
anticipated their every want and their thoughts as well. For, when
Frank endeavored to ask one of the many questions with which his mind
was filled, he was interrupted by a wave of the hand and a smile from
their placid host.

"It is quite clear to me that you have many questions to propound,"
said Orrin, "and this is not a matter of wonder. But it is not
permitted that I enlighten you on the points you have in mind. You
must first finish your meal. Then it is to be my privilege to conduct
you to the presence of Phaestra, Empress of Theros, who will reveal
all. May I ask that you be patient until then?"

So friendly was his smile and so polished his manner that they
restrained their impatience and finished the excellent breakfast in
polite silence.

And Orrin was as good as his word, for, no sooner had they finished
when he led them from the room and showed the way to the elevator
which conveyed them to the upper floor of the building.

From the silver-grilled cage of the lift they stepped into a room of
such beauty and magnificence of decoration that they gazed about them
in wondering admiration. The paneling and mouldings were of hammered
silver that gleamed with polished splendor in the soft rose glow of
the hidden lights. The hangings were of heavy plush of deep green hue
and bore intricate designs of silver thread woven into the material.
At the opposite side of the room there was a pair of huge double doors
of chased silver and on either side of this pretentious portal there
stood an attendant attired as was Orrin, but bearing a silver scepter
to denote his official capacity.

"Phaestra awaits the visitors from above," intoned one of the
attendants. Both bowed stiffly from the waist when Orrin led the two
young scientists through the great doors which had opened silently and
majestically at their approach.

       *       *       *       *       *

If the outer room was astonishing in its sumptuousness of decoration
and furnishing, the one they now entered was positively breath-taking.
On every side there were the exquisite green and silver hangings.
Tables, divans, and rugs of priceless design and workmanship. But the
beauty of the surroundings faded into insignificance when they saw the
empress.

A canopied dais in the center of the room drew their attention and
they saw that Phaestra had risen from her seat in a deeply cushioned
divan and now stood at its side in an attitude of welcome. Nearly as
tall as Frank, she was a figure of commanding and imperious beauty.
The whiteness of her body was accentuated by the silver embroidered
and tightly fitted black vestments that covered yet did not conceal
its charms. A halo of glorious golden hair surmounted a head that was
poised expectantly alert above the perfectly rounded shoulders. The
exquisite oval of her face was chiseled in features of transcendent
loveliness. She spoke, and, at sound of her musical voice, Frank and
Tommy were enslaved.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Gentlemen of the upper world," she said gently, "you are welcome to
Theros. Your innermost thoughts have been recorded by our scientists
and found good. With a definite purpose in mind, you learned of the
existence of the silver dome of Theros, yet you came without greed or
malice and we have taken you in to enlighten you on the many questions
that are in your minds and to return you to mankind with a knowledge
of Theros--which you must keep secret. You are about to delve into a
mystery of the ages; to see and learn many things that are beyond the
ken of your kind. It is a privilege never before accorded to beings
from above."

"We thank you, oh, Queen," spoke Frank humbly, his eyes rivetted to
the gaze of those violet orbs that seemed to see into his very soul.
Tommy mumbled some commonplace.

"Orrin--the sphere!" Phaestra, slightly embarrassed by Frank's stare,
clapped her hands.

At her command, Orrin, who had stood quietly by, stepped to the wall
and manipulated some mechanism that was hidden by the hangings. There
was a musical purr from beneath the floor, and, through a circular
opening which appeared as if by magic, there rose a crystal sphere of
some four feet in diameter. Slowly it rose until it reached the level
of their eyes and there it came to rest. The empress raised her hands
as if in invocation and the soft glow of the lights died down, leaving
them in momentary darkness. There came a slight murmur from the
sphere, and it lighted with the eery green flickerings they had
observed in the dome of silver.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fascinated by the weaving lights within, they gazed into the depths of
the crystal with awed expectancy. Phaestra spoke.

"Men from the surface," she said, "you, Frank Rowley, and you, Arnold
Thompson, are about to witness the powers of that hemisphere of metal
you were pleased to term 'Silver Dome.' As you rightly surmised, the
dome is of silver--mostly. There are small percentages of platinum,
iridium, and other elements, but it is more than nine-tenths pure
silver. To you of the surface the alloy is highly valuable for its
intrinsic worth by your own standards, but to us the value of the dome
lies in its function in revealing to us the past and present events of
our universe. The dome is the 'eye' of a complicated apparatus which
enables us to see and hear any desired happening on the surface of the
earth, beneath its surface, or on the many inhabited planets of the
heavens. This is accomplished by means of extremely complex vibrations
radiated from the hemisphere, these vibrations penetrating earth,
metals, buildings, space itself, and returning to our viewing and
sound reproducing spheres to reveal the desired past or present
occurrences at the point at which the rays of vibrations are directed.

       *       *       *       *       *

"In order to view the past on our own planet, the rays, which travel
at the speed of light, are sent out in a huge circle through space,
returning to earth after having spent the requisite number of years in
transit. Instantaneous effect is secured by a connecting beam that
ties together the ends of the enormous arc. This, of course, is beyond
your comprehension, since the Ninth Dimension is involved. When it is
desired that events of the present be observed, the rays are projected
direct. The future can not be viewed, since, in order to accomplish
this, it would be necessary that the rays travel at a speed greater
than that of light, which is manifestly impossible."

"Great guns!" gasped Frank. "This crystal sphere then, is capable of
bringing to our eyes and ears the happenings of centuries past?"

"It is, my dear Frank," said Phaestra, "and I would that I were able
to describe the process more clearly." She smiled, and in the
unearthly light of the sphere she appeared more beautiful than before,
if such a thing were possible.

On the pedestal which supported the sphere there was a glittering
array of dials and levers. Several of these controls were now adjusted
by Phaestra, the delicate motions of her tapered fingers being watched
by the visitors with intense admiration. There came a change in the
note of the sphere, a steadying of the flickerings within.

"Behold!" exclaimed Phaestra.

       *       *       *       *       *

They gazed into the depths of the sphere and lost all sense of
detachment from the scene depicted therein. It seemed they were at a
point several thousand miles from the surface of a planet. A great
continent spread beneath them, its irregular shore line being clearly
outlined against a large body of water. Here and there the surface was
obscured by great white patches of clouds that cast their shadows
below.

"Atlantis!" breathed Phaestra reverently.

The lost continent of mythology! The fabled body of land that was
engulfed by the Atlantic thousands of years ago--a fact!

Tommy glanced at Frank, noting that he had withdrawn his gaze from the
sphere and was devouring Phaestra with his eyes. As if drawn by the
ardor of his observation, she raised her own eyes from the sphere to
meet those of the handsome visitor. Obviously confused, she dropped
her long lashes and turned nervously to the controls. Tommy
experienced a sudden feeling of dread. Surely his pal was not falling
in love with this Theronian empress!

Then there came another change in the note of the sphere and once more
they lost themselves in contemplation of the scene within. The surface
of the lost continent was rushing madly to meet them. With terrific
velocity they seemed to be falling. An involuntary gasp was forced
from Tommy's lips. Mountains, valleys, rivers could now be discerned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the scene shifted slightly and they were stationary, directly
above a large seacoast city. A city of great beauty it was, and its
buildings were of the same octagonal shape as were those of Theros!
There could be but one inference--the Theronians were direct
descendants of those inhabitants of ancient Atlantis.

"Yes," sighed Phaestra, in answer to the thought she had read, "our
ancestors were those you now see in the streets of this city of
Atlantis. A marvelous race they were, too. When the rest of the world
was still savage and unenlightened, they knew more of the arts and
sciences than is known on the surface to-day. The mysteries of the
Fourth Dimension they had already solved. Their telescopes were of
such power that they knew of the existence of intelligent beings on
Mars and Venus. They had conquered the air. They knew of the relation
between gravity and magnetism but recently propounded by your
Einstein. They were prosperous, happy. Then--but watch!"

Faint sounds of the life of the city came to their ears. A swarm of
monoplanes roared past just beneath them. The streets were crowded
with rapidly moving vehicles, the roof-tops with air-craft. Then
suddenly the scene darkened; a deep rumbling came from the sea. As
they watched in fascinated wonder, a great chasm opened up through the
heart of the city. Tall buildings swayed and crumbled, falling into
heaps of twisted metal and crushed masonry and burying hundreds of the
populace in their fall. The confusion was indescribable, the uproar
terrific, and within the space of a very few minutes the entire city
was a mass of ruins, fully half of the wrecked area having been
swallowed up by the heaving waters of the ocean.

       *       *       *       *       *

Phaestra stifled a sob. "Thus it began," she stated. "Trovus was
first--the city you just saw--then came three more of the cities of
the western coast in rapid succession. Computations of the scientists
showed that the upheaval was widespread and that the entire continent
was to be engulfed in a very short time. The exodus began, but it was
too late, and only a few hundred people were able to escape the
continent before it was finally destroyed. The ocean became the tomb
of two hundred millions. The handful of survivors reached the coast of
what is now North America. But the rigors of the climate proved severe
and more than three-quarters of them perished within a few days after
their planes landed. Then the rest took to the caves along the shore,
and for a while were safe."

She manipulated the controls once more and there was a quick shift to
another coast, a rugged, wave-beaten shore. Closer they drew until
they observed a lofty palisade that extended for miles along the
barren waterfront. They saw a fire atop this elevation and active men
and women at various tasks within the narrow circle of its warmth. A
cave mouth opened at the brink of the precipice near the spot they
occupied.

Then came a repetition of the upheaval at Trovus. The ocean rushed in
and beat against the cliff with such ferocity that its spray was
tossed hundreds of feet in the air. The earth shook and the group of
people around the fire made a hasty retreat to the mouth of the cave.
The sky darkened and the winds howled with demoniac fury. Quake after
quake rent the rugged cliffs: huge sections toppled into the angry
waters. Then a great tidal wave swept in and covered everything,
cliffs, cave mouths and all. Nought remained where they had been but
the seething waters.

       *       *       *       *       *

"But some escaped!" exulted Phaestra, "and these discovered Theros.
Though many miles of the eastern seaboard of your United States were
submerged and the coastline entirely altered, these few were saved.
Their cave connected with a long passage, a tunnel that led into the
bowels of the earth. With the outer entrance blocked by the upheaval
they had no alternative save to continue downward."

"They traveled for days and days. Some were overcome by hunger and
fell by the wayside. The most hardy survived to reach Theros, a series
of enormous caverns that extends for hundreds of miles under the
surface of your country. Here they found subterranean lakes of pure
water; forests, game. They had a few tools and weapons and they
established themselves in this underground world. From that small
beginning came this!"

Phaestra's slim fingers worked rapidly at the controls. The scenes
shifted in quick succession. They were once more in the present, and
seemed to be traveling speedily through the underground reaches of
Theros. Now they were racing through a long lighted passage; now over
a great city similar to the one in which they had arrived. Here they
visited a huge workshop or laboratory; there a mine where radium or
cobalt or platinum was being wrested from the vitals of the unwilling
earth. Then they visited a typical Theronian household, saw the
perfect peace and happiness in which the family lived. Again they were
in a large power plant where direct application of the internal heat
of the earth as obtained through deep shafts bored into the interior
was utilized in generating electricity.

They saw vast quantities of supplies, fifty-ton masses of machinery,
moved from place to place as lightly as feathers by use of the gravity
discs, those heavily charged plates whose emanations counteracted the
earth's attraction. In one busy laboratory they saw an immense
television apparatus and heard scientists discussing moot questions
with inhabitants of Venus, whose images were depicted on the screen.
They witnessed a severe electrical storm in the huge cavern arch over
one of the cities, a storm that condensed moisture from the
artificially oxygenated and humidified atmosphere in such blinding
sheets as to easily explain the necessity for well-roofed buildings in
the underground realm. And, in all the speech and activities of the
Theronians, there was evident that all-pervading feeling of absolute
contentment and freedom from care.

"What I can not understand," said Frank, during a quiet interval, "is
why the Theronians have never migrated to the surface. Surely, with
all your command of science and mechanics, that would be easy."

"Why? Why?" Phaestra's voice spoke volumes. "Here--I'll show you the
reason."

       *       *       *       *       *

And again the scene in the sphere changed. They were on the surface
and a few years in the past--at Chateau Thierry. They saw their fellow
men mangled and broken; saw human beings shot down by hundreds in
withering bursts of machine-gun fire; saw them in hand-to-hand bayonet
fights; gassed and in delirium from the horror of it all.

They traveled over the ocean; saw a big passenger liner the victim of
torpedo fire; saw babies tossed into the water by distracted mothers
who jumped in after them to join them in death.

A few years were passed by and they saw gang wars in Chicago and New
York; saw militia and picketing strikers in mortal combat; saw wealthy
brokers and bank presidents turn pistols on themselves following a
crash in the stock market; government officials serving penitentiary
terms for betrayal of the people's trust; opium dens, speakeasies, sex
crimes. It was a fearful indictment.

"Ah, no," said Phaestra kindly, "the surface world has not yet emerged
from savagery. We should be unwelcome were we to venture outside. And
now we come to the reason for your visit. You come in search of one
Edwin Leland, a fellow worker at one time. Your motives are above
reproach. But Leland came as a greedy searcher of riches. We brought
him within to teach him the error of his ways and to beg him to desist
from his efforts at destroying the dome of silver. He alone knew the
secret."

"Then you followed him and we took you in for similar reasons, though
our scientists found very quickly that your mental reactions were of
entirely different type from Leland's and that the secret would be
safe in your keeping. Leland remains obdurate. He threatens us with
physical violence, and his reactions to the thought-reading machines
are of the most treacherous sort. We must keep him with us. He shall
remain unharmed, but he must not be allowed to return. That is the
story. You two are free to leave when you choose. I ask not that you
give your word to keep the secret of 'Silver Dome.' I know it is not
necessary."

       *       *       *       *       *

The lights had resumed their normal glow, and the marvelous sphere
returned to its receptacle beneath the floor. Phaestra resumed her
seat on the canopied divan. Frank dropped to a seat on the edge of the
dais. Tommy and Orrin remained standing, Tommy lost in thought and
Orrin stolidly mute. The empress avoided Frank's gaze studiously. Her
cheeks were flushed; her eyes bright with emotion.

Frank was first to break the silence. "Leland is in solitary
confinement?" he asked.

"For the present he is under guard," replied Phaestra. "He was quite
violent and it was necessary to disarm him after he had killed one of
my attendants with a shot from his automatic pistol. When he agrees to
submit peacefully, he shall be given the freedom of Theros for the
remainder of his life."

"Perhaps," suggested Frank, "if I spoke to him...."

"The very thing." Phaestra thanked him with her wondrous eyes.

A high pitched note rang out from behind the hangings, and, in rapid
syllables of the language of Theros, a voice broke forth from the
concealed amplifiers. Orrin, startled from his stoicism, sprang to the
side of his empress. She rose from her seat as the voice completed its
excited message.

"It is Leland," she said calmly. "He has escaped and recovered his
pistol. I have been told that he is now at large in the palace,
terrorizing the household. We have no weapons here, you see."

"Good God!" shouted Frank. "Suppose he should come here?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He jumped to his feet just as a shot rang out in the antechamber.
Orrin dashed to the portal when a second shot spat forth from the
automatic which must certainly be in the hands of a madman. The doors
swung wide and Leland, hair disarranged and bloodshot eyes staring,
burst into the room. Orrin went down at the next shot and the hardly
recognizable scientist advanced toward the dais.

When he saw Frank and Tommy he stopped in his tracks. "So you two have
been following me!" he snarled. "Well, you won't keep me from my
purpose. I'm here to kill this queen of hell!"

Once more he raised his automatic, but Frank had been watching closely
and he literally dove from the steps of the dais to the knees of the
deranged Leland. As beautiful a tackle as he had ever made in his
college football days laid the maniac low with a crashing thud that
told of a fractured skull. The bullet intended for Phaestra went wide,
striking Tommy in the shoulder.

Spun half way around by the impact of the heavy bullet, Tommy fought
to retain his balance. But his knees went suddenly awry and gave way
beneath him. He crumpled helplessly to the floor, staring foolishly at
the prostrate figure of Leland and at Frank, who had risen to his feet
and now faced the beautiful empress of Theros. Strange lights danced
before Tommy's eyes, and he found it difficult to keep the pair in
focus. But he was sure of one thing--his pal was unharmed. Then the
two figures seemed to merge into one and he blinked his eyes rapidly
to clear his failing vision. By George, they were in each other's
arms! Funny world--above or below--it didn't seem to make any
difference. But it was a tough break for Frank--morganatic marriage
and all that. No chance--well--

Tommy succumbed to his overpowering drowsiness.

       *       *       *       *       *

The awakening was slow, but not painful. Rather there was a feeling of
utter contentment, of joy at being alive. A delicious languor pervaded
Tommy's being as he turned his head on a snow white silken pillow and
stared at the figure of the white-capped nurse who was fussing with
the bottles and instruments that lay on an enameled table beside the
bed. Memory came to him immediately. He felt remarkably well and
refreshed. Experimentally he moved his left shoulder. There was
absolutely no pain and it felt perfectly normal. He sat erect in his
surprise and felt the shoulder with his right hand. There was no
bandage, no wound. Had he dreamed of the hammer blow of that
forty-five caliber bullet?

His nurse, observing that her patient had recovered consciousness,
broke forth in a torrent of unintelligible Theronian, then rushed from
the room.

He was still examining his unscarred shoulder in wonder, when the
nurse returned, with Frank Rowley at her heels. Frank laughed at the
expression of his friend's face.

"What's wrong, old-timer?" he asked.

"Why--I--thought that fool of a Leland had shot me in the shoulder,"
stammered Tommy, "but I guess I dreamed it. Where are we? Still in
Theros?"

"We are." Frank sobered instantly, and Tommy noted with alarm that his
usually cheerful features were haggard and drawn and his eyes hollow
from loss of sleep. "And you didn't dream that Leland shot you. That
shoulder of yours was mangled and torn beyond belief. He was using
soft nosed bullets, the hell-hound!"

"Then how--?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Tommy, these Theronians are marvelous. We rushed you to this hospital
and a half-dozen doctors started working on you at once. They repaired
the shattered bones by an instantaneous grafting process, tied the
severed veins and arteries and closed the gaping wound by filling it
with a plastic compound and drawing the edges together with clamps.
You were anaesthetized and some ray machine was used to heal the
shoulder. This required but ten hours and they now say that your arm
is as good as ever. How does it feel?"

"Perfectly natural. In fact I feel better than I have in a month."
Tommy observed that the nurse had left the room and he jumped from his
bed and capered like a school boy.

This drew no sign of merriment from Frank, and Tommy scrutinized him
once more in consternation. "And you," he said, "what is wrong with
you?"

"Don't worry about me," replied Frank impatiently. Then, irrelevantly,
he said "Leland's dead."

"Should be. I knew we shouldn't have started out to help him. But,
Frank, I'm concerned about you. You look badly." Tommy was getting
into his clothes as he spoke.

"Forget it, Tommy. You've been sleeping for two days, you know--part
of the cure--and I haven't had much rest during that time. That is
all."

"It's that Phaestra woman," Tommy accused him.

"Well, perhaps. But I'll get over it, I suppose. Tommy, I love her.
But there's no chance for me. Haven't seen her since the row in the
palace. Her council surrounds her continually and I have been advised
to-day that we are to be returned as quickly as you are up and around.
That means immediately now."

"Good. The sooner the better. And you just forget about this queen as
soon as you are able. She's a peach, of course, but not for you.
There's lots more back in little old New York." But Frank had no reply
to this sally.

       *       *       *       *       *

There came a knock at the door and Tommy called, "Come in."

"I see you have fully recovered," said the smiling Theronian who
entered at the bidding, "and we are overjoyed to know this. You have
the gratitude of the entire realm for your part in the saving of our
empress from the bullets of the madman."

"I?"

"Yes. You and your friend. And now, may I ask, are you ready to return
to your own land?"

Tommy stared. "Sure thing," he said, "or rather, I will be in a few
minutes."

"Thank you. We shall await you in the transmitting room." The
Theronian bowed and was gone.

"Well, I like that," said Tommy. "He hands me an undeserved compliment
and then asks how soon we can beat it. A 'here's your hat, what's your
hurry' sort of thing."

"It's me they're anxious to be rid of," remarked Frank, shrugging his
broad shoulders, "and perhaps it is just as well."

"You bet it is!" agreed Tommy enthusiastically, "and I'm in favor of
making it good and snappy." He completed his toilet as rapidly as
possible and then turned to face the down-hearted Frank.

"How do we go? The way we came?" he asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

"No, Tommy. They have closed off the shaft that led from the cavern of
the silver dome. They are taking no more chances. It seems that the
shaft down which we floated was constructed by the Theronians; not by
Leland. They had used it and the gravity disc to transport casual
visitors to the surface, who occasionally mixed with our people in
order to learn the languages of the upper world and to actually touch
and handle the things they were otherwise able to see only through the
medium of Silver Dome and the crystal spheres. Further visits to the
surface are now forbidden, and we are to be returned by a remarkable
process of beam transmission of our disintegrated bodies."

"Disintegrated?"

"Yes. It seems they have learned to dissociate the atoms of which the
human body is composed and to transmit them to any desired point over
a beam of etheric vibrations, then to reassemble them in the original
living condition."

"What? You mean to say we are to be shot to the surface through the
intervening rock and earth? Disintegrated and reintegrated? And we'll
not even be bent, let alone busted?"

       *       *       *       *       *

This time he was rewarded by a laugh. "That's right. And I have gone
through the calculations with one of the Theronian engineers and can
find no flaw in the scheme. We're safe in their hands."

"If you say so, Frank, it's okay with me. Let's go!"

Reluctantly his friend lifted his athletic bulk from the chair. In
silence he led the way to the transmitting room of the Theronian
scientists.

Here they were greeted by two savants with whom Frank was already
acquainted, Clarux and Rhonus by name. A bewildering array of complex
mechanisms was crowded into the high-ceilinged chamber and, prominent
among them, was one of the crystal spheres, this one of somewhat
smaller size than the one in the palace of Phaestra.

"Where do you wish to arrive?" asked Clarux.

"As near to my automobile as possible," replied Frank, taking sudden
interest in the proceedings. "It is parked in the lane between
Leland's house and the road."

Tommy looked quickly in his direction, encouraged by the apparent
change in his attitude. The scientists proceeded to energize the
crystal sphere. They were bent upon speeding the parting guests. Their
beloved empress was to be saved from her own emotions.

Quick adjustments of the controls resulted in the locating of Frank's
car, which was still buried to its axles in snow. The scene included
Leland's house, or rather its site, for it appeared to have been
utterly demolished by some explosion within.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tommy raised questioning eyebrows.

"It was necessary," explained Rhonus, "to destroy the house in
obliterating all traces of our former means of egress. It has been
commanded that you two be returned safely, and we are authorized to
trust implicitly in your future silence regarding the existence of
Theros. This is satisfactory, I presume?"

Both Tommy and Frank nodded agreement.

"Are you ready, gentlemen?" asked Clarux, who was adjusting a
mechanism that resembled a huge radio transmitter. Its twelve giant
vacuum tubes glowed into life as he spoke.

"We are," chimed the two visitors.

They were requested to step to a small circular platform that was
raised about a foot from the floor by means of insulating legs. Above
the table there was an inverted bowl of silver in the shape of a large
parabolic reflector.

"There will be no alarming sensations," averred Clarux. "When I close
the switch the disintegrating energy from the reflector above will
bathe your bodies for a moment in visible rays of a deep purple hue.
You may possibly experience a slight momentary feeling of nausea.
Then--presto!--you have arrived."

"Shoot!" growled Frank from his position on the stand.

Clarux pulled the switch and there was a murmur as of distant thunder.
Tommy blinked involuntarily in the brilliant purple glow that
surrounded him. Then all was confusion in the transmitting room.
Somebody had rushed through the open door shouting, "Frank! Frank!" It
was the empress Phaestra.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a growing daze Tommy saw her dash to the platform, seize Frank in a
clutch of desperation. There was a violent wrench as if some monster
were twisting at his vitals. He closed his eyes against the blinding
light, then realized that utter silence had followed the erstwhile
confusion. He sat in Frank's car--alone.

The journey was over, and Frank was left behind. With awful finality
it came to him that there was nothing he could do. It was clear that
Phaestra had wanted his pal, needed him--come for him. From the fact
that Frank remained behind it was evident that she had succeeded in
retaining him. A sickening fear came to Tommy that she had been too
late; that Frank's body was already partly disintegrated and that he
might have paid the price of her love with his life. But a little
reflection convinced him that if this were the case a portion of his
friend's body would have reached the intended destination. Then,
unexplainably, he received a mental message that all was well.

       *       *       *       *       *

Considerably heartened, he pressed the starter button and the cold
motor of Frank's coupe turned over slowly, protestingly. Finally it
coughed a few times, and, after considerable coaxing by use of the
choke, ran smoothly. He proceeded to back carefully through the drifts
toward the road, casting an occasional regretful glance in the
direction of the demolished mansion.

He would have some explaining to do when he returned to New York.
Perhaps--yes, almost certainly, he would be questioned by the police
regarding Frank's disappearance. But he would never betray the trust
of Phaestra. Who indeed would believe him if he told the story?
Instead, he would concoct a weird fabrication regarding an explosion
in Leland's laboratory, of his own miraculous escape. They could not
hold him, could not accuse him of murder without producing a body--the
_corpus delicti_, or whatever they called it.

Anyway, Frank was content. So was Phaestra.

Tommy swung the heavy car into the road and turned toward New York,
alone and lonely--but somehow happy; happy for his friend.

[Advertisement: ASTOUNDING STORIES

_Appears on Newsstands_

THE FIRST THURSDAY IN EACH MONTH]




Earth, the Marauder

PART TWO OF A THREE-PART NOVEL

_By Arthur J. Burks_

[Illustration: Closer and closer they came.]

[Sidenote: Deep in the gnome-infested tunnels of the Moon, Sarka and
Jaska are brought to Luar, the radiant goddess against whose minions
the marauding Earth had struck in vain.]


WHAT HAS GONE BEFORE

The Earth was dying. Ever since Sarka the First, king of scientists,
had given mankind the Secret of Life, which prolonged life
indefinitely, the Earthlings had multiplied beyond all count, and been
forced to burrow deep into the ground and high into the air in the
desperate search for the mere room in which to live. There was much
civil war. The plight of the children of men was desperate. Something
had to be done.

[Illustration]

Then Sarka the Third called the Spokesmen of the Gens of Earth around
him, and proposed to them a new scheme which had come to him in his
laboratory atop the Himalayas. He would swing the Earth from its
orbit!--send it careening through space toward the Moon!--there to
destroy its inhabitants and supplant them with a colony of Earthlings!
And then they would surge on to Mars!

One by one the twelve Spokesmen, each the head and representative of
the teeming trillions comprising his Gens, acceded. Even Dalis, the
jealous rival of Sarka, finally gave his sulky consent.

So, under Sarka's commands, the Earth's hordes were mobilized; and in
tune with the Master Beryl in Sarka's laboratory all the Beryls of the
Earth vibrated, freeing the Earth from her age-old orbit and swinging
her out towards the Moon.

The Gens of Dalis--the trillions of people who swore allegiance to
him--would lead the attack on the Moon. When within fifty thousand
miles, they darted out, clad only in their tight green clothing and
the helmets that held the anti-gravitational ovoids, which
neutralized gravity for them and enabled them to instantly fly where
they willed. Their only weapons were hand atom-disintegrators. And out
from the Moon came mysterious aircars, with long clutching
tentacles--the weapons of the Moon's minions! The war of the worlds
was begun!

Yet Dalis, leader of the Gens that now engaged the Moon's aircars, was
still in the laboratory with Sarka. For Dalis' treacherous mind
coveted control of the Earth, and though the urge to lead his Gens
into battle was tremendous, still he stayed, watching Sarka closely,
waiting for the moment when he could trick Sarka and assume control.

And at the head of the Gens of Dalis was a woman, Jaska, whom Sarka
loved. The Moon's aircars swept away the Gens of Dalis, and out from
Earth poured the Gens of Cleric, who was Jaska's father. The newcomers
fought desperately to save Jaska from the deadly clutches of the
aircars.

Dalis could stand it no longer. He sped forth from the laboratory, to
reorganize his beaten Gens. Jaska flew for home; but behind her a
single aircar, splashed with crimson, reached forth its tentacles to
clutch her--and Sarka groaned with the agony of his impotence to help
the woman he loved.


CHAPTER XI

_Escape--and Dalis' Laughter_

But Sarka was not to be so easily beaten. There still remained an
infinite number of possible changes of speed by manipulation of ovidum
by vibration set up by the Beryls, without which this flight from the
beginning would have been impossible. But for two hours, while the
white robed men of Cleric fought against the car of the crimson
splashes to prevent the capture of the daughter of their
Spokesman--and died by hundreds in the grip of those grim
tentacles--Sarka was forced to labor with the Beryls until
perspiration bathed his whole body and his heart was heavy as he
foresaw failure. And failure meant death or worse for Jaska.

But at the end of two hours, while the men of Cleric fought like men
inspired against the aircar of the crimson slashes, a cessation in the
outward speed of the earth could be noted. At the end of three hours
the body of Jaska, all this time fighting manfully to attain to
landing place on the Earth, was at last bulking larger; but the
tentacles of the aircar were groping after her, reaching for her,
striving to catch and clasp her to her death.

The two Sarkas watched and prayed while the might of the Beryls,
traveling at top speed, fought against the force of whatever was used
by the Moon-men to compel the Moon to withdraw. Still the men of
Cleric fought that single car, and died by hundreds in the fighting.
White robed figures which became shriveled and black in the grip of
those tentacles.

       *       *       *       *       *

Countless of the men of Cleric deliberately cast themselves against
those tentacles, throwing their lives away to give Jaska more leeway
in her race for life.

"Will she make it, father?" queried Sarka in a whisper.

"If the courage and loyalty of her people stand for anything, she will
make it," he replied.

On she came at top speed, and now through the micro-telescopes the
Sarkas could see the agony of effort on her face, even through the
smooth mask used by the people of Earth for flight in space where
there was no atmosphere. Courage was there, and the will of
never-say-die; and Jaska, moreover, was coming back to the man she
loved. In a nebulous sort of way Sarka realized this, for though these
two had not mated there was a resonant inner sympathy between them
which had rounded into an emotion of overpowering force since Jaska
had proved to Sarka that she was to be trusted--that he had been
something less than a faithful lover when he had mistrusted her, ever
so little.

Closer now and closer, and at last the aircar of the crimson splashes
was drawing away, losing in the race for life. It was falling back, as
though minded to turn about and race back for the Moon, now a ball in
the sky, far away, the outlines of its craters growing dim and misty
with distance. Now the men of Cleric, those who remained, were
breaking contact with the aircar, and forming a valiant rear-guard for
the retreat of Jaska.

       *       *       *       *       *

Throughout the Earth, as the Beryls fought with ever increasing speed
to lower the rate of the earth's outward race from the Moon, was such
a trembling, such a vibration induced by conflicting, alien forces as
there had not been even in that moment when back there in its orbit,
the Earth could have either been kept within its orbit, or hurled
outward into space at the touch of a finger.

Now Jaska, surrounded by her father's men, was almost close enough to
touch the Earth.

She made it, weak and weary, and rested for a moment while her
father's men steadied her. Then, thrusting them aside, with gestures
bidding them return to their Gens, she lifted into the air again, and
fled straight for the laboratory of Sarka.

She entered tiredly through the exit dome, and all but collapsed into the
arms of Sarka. Gently he removed her helmet of the anti-gravitational
ovoid, noting as she leaned against him the tumultuous beating of her
heart. Then her gentle eyes opened and she whispered to Sarka.

"You trust me now?"

For answer he bent and kissed her softly on the lips--for the kiss,
from the far distant time when the first baby was kissed by the first
mother, had been the favored caress of mankind. Her face was
transfigured as she read his answer in his eyes, and the touch of his
lips. Then, remembering, fear flashed across her face. She
straightened, and grasping Sarka by the hand, hurried with him into
the observatory.

       *       *       *       *       *

She took the seat in which Dalis had sat before he had gone out to the
command of his Gens, studied for many minutes the battle in space
between the two alien worlds.

"Dalis is winning," said the Elder Sarka quietly, "apparently!"

"The qualification is a just one," said Jaska softly. "'Apparently,'
indeed! You will note now that, though men of the Gens of Dalis swarm
all about the aircars, and even clamber atop them, no more are dying
in the grasp of those tentacles? Is Dalis arranging a treacherous
truce with the Moon-men?"

"I have been wondering about that," said Sarka softly, "for it is my
belief that nothing not conducive to his own selfish interests would
have forced Dalis to leave this place and take command of his Gens, as
I had first ordered, unless he had schemes planned of which father and
I could know nothing. Now that I think of it, Jaska, how did Dalis
know our secret code of fingers?"

Jaska started, and turned a blanched face to Sarka.

"_Did_ he know?" she cried. "Did he? If he did that proves a suspicion
that I have entertained since the first moment when Dalis swept into
the fight, and I sensed that alien signals were being flashed back and
forth!"

"Flashed back and forth!" ejaculated Sarka. "How do you mean? That
Dalis was somehow able to communicate with the Moon-men in their own
language, or through their own signals?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Why not? He knew our secret code, did he not? I never gave it to him,
and I know that you did not. No, Dalis has some means, never
discovered or suspected by you Sarkas, whereby he is able to
understand alien tongues and alien sign manuals!"

"That means," said Sarka the Elder in a dead voice, "that by forcing
Dalis to go out at the head of his Gens...."

"We have," interrupted Sarka the Younger, "placed a new weapon of
treason in his hands! Dalis, at the very moment of contact with the
aircars, loaded with Moon-men, broke in on their signals--they must
have had some means of signalling one another--and communicated with
them in their own way! Do you think it possible that, with all his
Gens, he may go over to the Moon-men, form an alliance with them?"

For many moments no one dared to answer the question; yet, from what
the Sarkas knew of him, it was not impossible at all. For Dalis was
the master egotist always, and never overlooked opportunity to gain
something for himself.

It was Jaska who broke the silence.

"Did you note carefully," she said, "those aircars which were
partially destroyed by our ray directors and atom-disintegrators?"

The Sarkas nodded.

"Did you note that no men, formed like our own, no creatures of any
sort whatever, fell from the cars?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Again the awesome silence, and the keen brains of the Sarkas wrestled
with this vague hint of the uncanny.

"You mean, Jaska ... you mean...."

"That the occupants of aircars are part of the cars, but--Beings of
the Moon! That they are either metal monsters endowed with brains or
tiny creatures irrevocably attached to the cars themselves!"

"But how," said Sarka at last, "are we to be sure? I can understand
what Dalis might do if the Moon-men granted his wish for an alliance
with them. It is easy to understand why his Gens would follow his
lead, for with the Moon forced outward from the Earth faster than his
Gens could retreat, there is but one direction for his Gens to
go--toward the Moon! They would go to the Moon as captives and trust
the keen brain of Dalis to gain the mastery, sooner or later, over the
Moon-men. And then...."

"And then--?" repeated Sarka the Elder.

"Then, Dalis has already been inspired by the speed with which those
aircars travel! You will remember that he did not take kindly to
leaving the Earth and making his abode on some other planet! But why
could he not do so, combine forces and knowledge with the people of
that planet--and then return to Earth in alliance with them?--after we
have depleted our forces by placing a large portion of our people on
Mars and Venus and Saturn?"

"Sarka, my son," said Sarka's father, "before we continue with our
flight to Mars, we must know the truth! We must somehow learn exactly
what is going on on the Moon! If you could reach the Moon, alone,
undetected, and bring back a report...."

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment he left it there, and the faces of all three were gray
with worry and abysmal fear.

"I can't go bodily, father," said Sarka at last, "but you remember my
secret exit dome, to the right of the observatory, from which I have
never yet dared exit from this place for fear that it might cost me my
life?"

Sarka the Elder nodded, while Jaska looked puzzled. Another evidence
of the fact that Sarka had not always trusted her, for she knew
nothing of a secret exit dome. Sarka's eyes, as he looked at Jaska,
mutely asked her forgiveness, which she gave him with her smile.

"I remember, son, and now?..."

"Surely it is worth risking one's life to know what new menace looms
over the children of men!"

"What is the use of this secret dome?" asked Jaska softly.

"It is merely an elaboration of the regular exit dome, combined with
certain phases of our atom-distintegrators, and the principle involved
in the anti-gravitational ovoids. I step into the secret exit dome,
garbed for flight Outside, and will myself to appear bodily in a
certain placed. It is instantaneous. I step into the dome, for
example, and will myself to appear whole upon the Moon, and there I
will appear!"

"You mean that during the period of transposition you are invisible?"

"Yes, invisible because non-existent, except for the essential
elements of me, broken down by the secret exit dome, reassembled at
the place willed in their entirety! I can't fly there, for a million
eyes would see me approach! I must go in secret, as a spy, and wearing
the clothing and insignia of a member of the Gens of Dalis!"

Silence in the observatory for a brief breathing space, and then Jaska
spoke that speech out of the books of antiquity, which remains the
classic expression of loyalty.

"Whithersoever thou goest, there will I go also!"

From the laboratory came a sudden burst of laughter, the laughter
which all three recognized as the laughter of Dalis; but when they
entered the place of the Revolving Beryl, there was no one there--and
a feeling of dread, all encompassing, held them thralled for the space
of several heart-beats. Dalis, they knew, was thousands of miles away,
upon the Moon; yet here in the place of the Master Beryl they all
three had just heard his sardonic laughter!


CHAPTER XII

_Ashes of the Moon_

Through the micro-telescopes it was possible to see what had happened
after Dalis had assumed command of the Gens of Dalis. For even though
the Moon, in spite of the speed of the Beryls, was being forced
further and further from the Earth, the eyes of the micro-telescopes
picked out and enlarged details to such an extent that the battle
seemed to be transpiring under the eyes of the beholders.

A terrific jumble, in which Earthlings and aircars were all tumbled
together in mad chaos, a great mass of writhing, green-garbed figures.
Infinite in number--in the midst of which were the gigantic aircars,
like monster beetles being beset by armies upon armies of ants.

Then, by the time Jaska had seated herself in the observatory atop the
Himalayas, to watch what developed, the battle seemed to be over, and
the Moon-men had won. For the huge cars swung around between the
myriads of the Gens of Dalis, and seemed to be herding them toward the
Moon, as though they were prisoners.

Telepathically, Sarka and his father had been able to catch some hint
of the thoughts of the Earthlings in the battle, and these thoughts
had been tinged with doubt, fear and horror, so that even thus to
receive them, by mental telepathy, was to feel the searing heat of
their fear.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, in the instant when the battle in Space seemed to be over and the
Gens of Dalis were prisoners, the thought waves were no more, and a
brooding silence took their place. Dalis, the Sarkas knew, possessed
the power to mask his thoughts, for it was a power possessed in common
by all the scientists of Earth. But the common people of his Gens did
not posses that power. However, for the moment Sarka had forgotten an
all important something: that, when people were outside the roof of
the world, they were subservient to the will of a common commander to
whom they had sworn allegiance.

If, therefore, Dalis could mask his own thoughts from the brains of
men, he could also mask the thoughts of the people of his Gens, merely
by willing it! So Sarka and his father and Jaska could not know
whether the Gens of Dalis had gone over in a body with him, in a truce
with the people of the Moon, or whether they were dual prisoners--of
Dalis and of the Moon-men!

More than ever was it necessary for someone to somehow reach the Moon
and make a thorough investigation, discover just what Dalis was doing,
what mischief he was hatching.

The secret exit dome seemed to be the answer.

"You can manage without me, father?" asked Sarka.

       *       *       *       *       *

The elder Sarka nodded.

"Of the other Spokesmen of Earth," went on Sarka, "I trust Gerd the
most. Might I suggest that you bring him here, trust him in all
details, and let him take my place wherever possible? Or, better
still, keep Jaska here with you! I ... I may not be able to return!
I'll try to find a way, but--we can always communicate telepathically.
Jaska...."

"Jaska," said that young lady grimly, "goes with Sarka wherever Sarka
goes!"

"But it may mean death! We can only guess at the cunning of the Moon
dwellers! They may have been in secret communication with Dalis for
centuries! Dalis, who somehow discovered our secret finger code, may
also know of the secret exit dome, and the principle upon which it
operates! If he does, he may know how to combat it! Perhaps that
explains his laughter! Perhaps he heard and understood every word we
spoke, hears and understands every word we speak now! Who knows? He
may wait until I have passed through the secret exit dome, and then
make it impossible for me to be reincarnated on the Moon--or
elsewhere!"

"No matter," said Jaska softly, "wherever Sarka goes, there goes
Jaska! It is useless to attempt to dissuade me, and it is time you
learned that!"

In spite of himself Sarka smiled, and his father met his smile with a
quizzical one of his own. Both men had the same thought.

"The eternal woman!" said Sarka the Elder. "No man has ever understood
her--no man ever will! And all men are ruled by her!"

Sarka shrugged, and Jaska spoke again.

"Don't you think it is time we tried this new experiment?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarka nodded, and his face was suddenly alight with the excitement
which burned within him.

"First," he said, "we need accoutrements of the Gens of Dalis for two
people!"

Jaska smiled.

"Forseeing that we might have need of such equipment, I had several
complete outfits sent here when I took charge of the Gens of Dalis as
its Spokesman!"

Two minutes later, arrayed in the green clothing of the House of
Dalis, swathed in it from neck to toe, wearing their belts and the
masks which were necessary to life in space where there was no
atmosphere, the whole topped by the gleaming helmets whose skull-pans
held the infinitesimally small anti-gravitational ovoids, Jaska and
Sarka entered the secret exit dome, side by-side.

On the breast and back of each showed the yellow stars of the Gens of
Dalis. There was no hiding their identity otherwise, and if any of the
Gens saw them, both would be immediately recognized--for Jaska had
commanded the Gens, and Sarka was the world's greatest scientist known
to every human being. But they planned on carrying out their
investigations by stealth.

"Father," said Sarka, "when the inner door is closed upon us, you have
but to press the button to the right of the door. Press it when the
light beside it glows red, which will indicate that we have willed
ourselves to go to a certain destination!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The inner door closed upon Sarka and Jaska, and, hand in hand, side by
side, their bodies glowing with knowledge of warm, sympathetic
contact, they waited for a miracle which had never before been
attempted.

"Are you afraid, beloved?" queried Sarka.

"When I am with you," she said softly, "I have no fear."

"Then face the outer door, and will to go wherever I will to take
you!"

Side by side, hand-in-hand still, they faced the outer door, and Sarka
willed:

"Let us appear together in a deserted spot, within sight but unseen,
of the Moon crater from which those aircars were sent against us!"

A sudden blur, a cessation of all knowledge, and then....

Sarka and Jaska stood side by side in a desolate expanse surrounded by
bleak and appalling mountains of grotesque shape, in a light that was
weirdly, awesomely blue. Their feet were invisible, deeply rooted in
some soft, fine material which looked like snow.

After a swift glance around to see if anything lived or moved in this
awful desolation, Sarka stooped and dipped up some of the fine stuff
with his fingers, touched it to his lips.

       *       *       *       *       *

The material seemed to be fine blue ashes and on his tongue it had a
soapy savor. He peered at Jaska, whose eyes were glowing with
excitement, whose lips were parted with anticipation, and instantly he
opened a mental conversation with her.

"We must speak with each other telepathically, but do not speak with
me until I have explained to you how to mask your thoughts from all
persons save the one with whom you hold converse! First, I love you!
Second, let us see if, searching the sky, we can find the Earth!"

In a few brief, highly technical words, Sarka told his beloved how to
talk with him in the manner which he had never before explained to
her. They had used telepathy before, countless times, but they had not
cared who heard--while now secrecy in all things was the prime
essential for success, even for life.

When he had told her, and she replied, "I understand perfectly, and it
seems quite easy," they turned and surveyed the heavens, out of which,
by this new miracle of the secret exit dome, they had dropped to the
face of the Moon.

Away across the space between worlds, its transfiguration plainly
visible to the two, they could make out and identify the world from
which they had come. Save that they knew themselves standing on the
Moon, they would have thought as far as appearances went, that the
place where they had come was the Moon, many times enlarged. It seemed
incredible that they had come so far in the twinkling of an eye; but
that they had was proved by the fact of their physical presence.

"Look, Jaska!" said Sarka suddenly. "See how our Earth glows, as
though it were afire inside!"

       *       *       *       *       *

They stared at the great circular yellowish flame that he pointed out,
and Sarka, always the scientist whose science was one of exactness,
tried to estimate just where, on the Earth's surface, the glow was.

"Jaska," he said again, "that glow comes out of the heart of the Gens area
which Dalis ruled! And no one lives there, since Dalis' Gens flew out to do
battle! That's why we did not know of it before we left! That glow,
somehow, beloved, is the cause of the outward-from-the-Earth journey of the
Moon! First we must locate the Moon-source of the glow, and render it
incapable of further forcing itself away! For do you realize that, unless
we do so, we will never again see home?"

Jaska said nothing, but her eyes were troubled for a moment. Then she
smiled again.

"What care I if I become a prisoner on the Moon, if you are with me?"

Sarka was just now realizing the wonder of this raven-haired woman
whom, knowing her for half a century as he had, he had just known so
little after all.

"If we seem in danger of discovery, Jaska," he said to her, "drop down
instantly into the ashes, for if we are discovered by Dalis...."

He left it there and, with a deep intake of breath, started away for
the nearest and highest hill. They desired to walk, yet found walking
almost impossible, as they could not keep their feet on the ground
save by the exercise of a really incredible effort of will. So,
despairing of keeping their feet in contact with the ashes, they flew
just above them, heading for the nearest weird-looking ridge.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the strange light, which was oddly like moonlight in some painted
desert of Earth, shapes were distorted and somehow menacing, colors
were raw, almost bleeding--and distances that seemed but a step
required hours to traverse.

Ever and anon, as they traveled they looked back up at the Earth which
was their home. It still was visible, though plainly smaller with
distance, and for a time Sarka's heart misgave him; but he only
clasped tighter the hand of Jaska and moved on.

They were just at the base of the first hill, which had now become a
mountain of gloomy, forbidding aspect, when the first sound they had
heard on the moon came to them. A sound that was a commingling of the
laughter of Dalis, the barking of jackals of the olden times, the
humming of a million Beryls revolving at top speed, and a strident
buzzing such as neither had ever heard.

Had they been discovered? Was the sound a warning? They could not
know; but as they stared at the crest of the hill, two long, snaky,
waving things appeared above the crest, undulating, waving to and
fro, as though questing for something. They crouched low in the white
ashes at the base of the mountain, and waited, scarcely breathing.


CHAPTER XIII

_The Lunar Cubes_

For a long time Sarka and Jaska remained still, like sentinels,
listening to the strange discord which seemed to emanate from behind
the hill at whose base they crouched.

"Look!" said Sarka at last. "There against the sky, beyond and between
those two waving tentacles! Note that column of light, scarcely
lighter than the light which surrounds it everywhere? It looks like a
massive column just lighter than everything around it, yet so little
lighter that you have to watch closely to see it at all?"

Jaska stared for all of a minute, before she thought back her answer.

"I see it," she said.

"Note now whether it goes, as it reaches outward into Space!"

Jaska followed the mighty height of the thing, outward and outward,
and then gasped.

"Sarka," she said, "its end touches the Earth in the very heart of
that strange glow we spoke about!"

"Exactly! And people of Earth know nothing about it, because it is
invisible to them! It is only from Outside that the glow it makes
against the Earth is visible! If we can divert its direction, or
render it useless in any way, the Moon will no longer be thrust away
by its force!"

A pause of indecision, then Sarka thought again:

"Let us go, Jaska! Keep behind me, right on my heels!"

Slowly, fighting against something that seemed determined to pull, or
hurl, them outward from the surface of the Moon with each forward
movement they made, they essayed the side of the hill, pausing at the
end of what seemed like hours in a sort of hollow just large enough
to mask their bodies and stared over its edge into one of the craters
of the Moon. Out of the depths of that crater came the discordant
sounds, which now were almost deafening, and out of that crater too
came the almost invisibly bluish column whose outer tip touched the
Earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Right before them, so close that they all but rested in its shadow,
was one of those monster aircars, its tentacles moving to and fro as
though wafted into motion by some vagrant breeze. But since neither
Sarka nor Jaska could feel the breeze, Sarka knew that it was life
which caused the waving motion of those tentacles of terror.

"Note," he said to Jaska, "that there is a tiny trap-door in the
bottom of the aircar, and that the thing rests on a half-dozen of
those tentacles!"

"I see," came Jaska's reply.

Jaska went on:

"Note the gleaming thing on the ground, right below the aircar? I
wonder what it is?"

They studied the thing there, which seemed to be a huge jewel of some
sort that glittered balefully in the eery light of the Moon. It was,
perhaps, twice the size of an average man's torso, and was almost
exactly cubical in shape. As Sarka studied the thing, he sensed that
feeling flowed out of it--that the cube, whatever it was, was alive!

He tore his glance away from it, and realized that he accomplished the
feat with a distinct effort of will--as though the cube had willed to
hold his gaze, knew he was there. His eyes, peering around the inner
slope of the crater--which dipped over, some hundreds of feet down,
and plunged downward to some unknown depth--noted a broad, flat stone,
off to his right; and around the rim of the crater he counted a full
hundred of the aircars, all with their tentacles waving as if they
belonged to sentient creatures.

       *       *       *       *       *

Below each one, as he studied them and strained his eyes to make out
details, he caught the baleful gleam of other cubes like the first he
had seen. The aircars, it seemed, were either sentinels, at the lip of
the crater, or were the dwelling places of sentinels--and the cubes
were those sentinels!

It seemed absurd, but it came to Sarka in a flash that that was the
answer, and his eyes came back to the first cube, because it was
nearer and more easy to study.

"I will not be swayed by the will of the thing," Sarka told himself.
"Nor will I allow it to analyze me! Jaska, do you do likewise!"

Beside him, Jaska shivered. He turned to look at her. Her face was
coldly white, and her eyes were big with terror and fascination as she
stared at that first cube, resting so balefully there under the first
aircar.

He shook her, and she seemed to bring her eyes to his with a terrific,
will-straining effort.

"Look at me!" he told her, telepathically. "Keep your eyes on me, for
to look at the cube spells danger!"

But his own eyes went back to the thing, and he studied it closely. A
cold chill raced through his body as he noted that its gleam was
becoming dull, fading slowly out. It had gleamed brightly at first,
and now was losing its sheen, fading away to invisibility. He thought
he should be able, regardless of gleam or color, to see its outline;
but its outline, too, seemed to be becoming faint, indistinct.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, in a trice, it was gone, and a feeling of uneasiness, more
compelling than he had ever known before, coursed through the soul of
Sarka. Where had the cube gone? What was it? What was its purpose? He
tore his eyes away from the spot where he had last seen it, and stared
away to the shadow beneath the second nearest aircar, where he had
glimpsed another of the cubes.

The cube there, too, was fading out.

"Sarka! Sarka! Look!" came to his brain the thoughts of Jaska.

Sarka turned and stared at her, and a feeling of fear for which he
could not account at all took fast hold of him. The eyes of Jaska,
wide and staring as they had been when he commanded her to look away
from the cube under the aircar, were staring at that flat, table-like
rock, off to his right.

There, almost in the center of the rock, a gleaming something was
taking shape! Just a dull spot, in the center of the yellow glow; then
the beginning of the outline of a cube. Then, all at once, the cube
itself, gleaming and baleful!

Sarka gasped in terror. He had seen the cube vanish, its glow
disappear, and now here it was, almost close enough to touch, on a
rock beside him, gleaming and baleful as before! That it was the same
cube he had seen under the first aircar, he somehow knew without being
told. That it was a sentient _thing_ he also knew, for now there was
no mistaking the fact that, but for the presence in the little hollow
of Jaska and Sarka, the cube would not have moved.

       *       *       *       *       *

Swift as light, Sarka's right hand darted to his belt, where his ray
director should be nestled against his need of it. And with his first
movement, the cube's brilliance vanished instantly, the cube
disappeared, and appeared again right before the face of Sarka, so
close he could touch it! Yet he did not turn the ray director against
it, nor did he extend his hand to touch the thing--because he was
afraid to do so!

Even as the cube appeared before his eyes, thrice baleful and menacing
in its close proximity, his eyes darted back to that broad flat rock,
where the second gleaming cube now appeared!

"Great God, Jaska!" he sent mentally, "what does it mean?"

"These," she answered bravely back, "are Moon-soldiers! And, unless
we manage not to appear furtive, we are undone!"

Still Sarka made no move, while other gleaming cubes appeared on the
flat rock. Five other cubes appeared beside the first, at the rim of
the hollow which held the forms of Jaska and Sarka. The cubes were
closing on them, oddly like a squad of Earthlings in the olden times,
advancing by rushes against an entrenched enemy!

The buzzing sound which they had first heard now seemed accentuated,
but, instead of being outside of the listeners, seemed inside them,
hammering against their very brains! Messages were being sent to them,
or passed back and forth between and among the cube-men about
them--and they hadn't the slightest idea how to make answer, know
whether an answer was expected of them, or what the cube-men thought
about them!

Since there was nothing else to do, they lay there, hands clasped, as
children in the dark clasp hands, and waited for what might transpire.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suddenly the discord from the inside of the crater ceased, and all was
still, while it came to Sarka that the cube-men who stood before him
were in grim communication with something invisible to Sarka and
Jaska, somebody, perhaps, deep in the bowels of the Moon, over inside
the crater.

They knew, those two, that the cube-soldiers were reporting their
presence, and asking instructions; that the Moon had gone silent to
listen, and that within a few moments their fate would be decided.
What should they do?

In his hand Sarka held his ray director, with which he knew he could
blast one or all of the cubes into nothingness. But still he held his
hand, made no move.

Something, however, had to be done, for the discord was starting
again, growing in volume. It made Sarka think, oddly enough, of a deaf
mute fighting for speech! Then came the first intelligible sound....

A burst, from the depths of the crater, of sardonic laughter!

"Dalis!" said Sarka, and moved. While Sarka moved, Jaska held fast to
his arm. Casting her fear to the winds, furious because of the
laughter of Dalis, Sarka thrust his ray director back into his belt
and stood upright.

Bending over he seized the first of the gleaming cubes and hurled it
over the edge of the crater, saw it start plummeting down. But even
before it fell out of sight within the crater its gleam had dulled
until it was almost impossible to see the thing. Racing as though
racing against time, Sarka caught up cube after cube and hurled them
all after the first.

       *       *       *       *       *

Out of the crater there came no sound of heavy objects striking,
though Sarka felt there should have, for the cubes were almost as
heavy as a man.

Then his hair almost stood on end under his helmet, for under that
first aircar, where he had first seen it, the initial cube was again
gleaming into life!

The thing had dissolved while being hurled over the rim, and reformed
in its proper place, its station as silent sentinel under the aircar!

These cubes then, were indeed sentinels--sentinels impossible to
injure. Though no force had been used against Sarka and Jaska, Sarka
had the feeling that they were powerless, and that here on the edge of
a crater of the Moon awful forces were being mustered against them.
Mustered slowly, sluggishly, yet surely, as though the mentality which
mustered them knew them helpless, and that there was no need to hurry!

As for Jaska, she merely clung to Sarka and waited--trusting him no
matter what might transpire.

On a blind chance, Sarka brought out his ray director again, turned
its muzzle toward that invisibly-blue column, pressed with his
fingers, moving the director back and forth.

Instantly the blue column seemed to break short off, while the broken
upper portion started racing outward toward the Earth. Sarka watched
it, and noted that the yellowish glow on the Earth, even as he
watched, was fading out--disappearing!

"If the ray will smash the blue column, Jaska," he said, "it will also
destroy its source! Come! We will go look for it!"

And, holding her hand tightly, he rose to his feet and strode boldly
down the inner slope of the vast crater.


CHAPTER XIV

_The Crater Gnomes_

It seemed to Sarka, as he moved down the inner slope of the crater,
that the cubes were somehow making sport of him, laughing at him,
though no hint of laughter or anything resembling laughter emanated
from them.

But, shutting his lips grimly, holding fast to Jaska's hand, he
proceeded on, reached the lower portion of the inner slope, where it
dropped off into a seeming black abyss, and dropped, keeping to a safe
speed because of the fact that both he and Jaska were attired for
movement in the air--though their manner of aerial transportation
could scarcely be called flying.

The anti-gravitational ovoids simply rendered ineffectual the law of
gravity.

Down they dropped, endlessly it seemed, while all about them, growing
gradually, a bluish glow began to make itself manifest. Sarka turned
and looked at the face of Jaska and noted that it--all her being--was
glowing with this strange radiance.

He smiled at her, and she smiled back.

Looking down now, to what seemed still a vast depth, they could see
figures moving, tiny, almost infinitesimal, about a great circular
cone, out of the depths of which came that strange bluish column whose
outer tip touched the Earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some inner sense warned Sarka not to touch that column, or to permit
Jaska to do so. They dropped down beside it, while Sarka, for no
reason that he could assign, once more took his ray director in his
free hand and held it in readiness. It seemed so tiny and futile--so
foolish for two people, one of them a woman--to go into the very heart
of an alien world, against an unknown enemy, armed with such a tiny
weapon. Two people against unguessed myriads, whose very nature was an
enigma, even to Sarka.

Closer now appeared the bottom of the crater, whose floor seemed to be
covered with something that looked like blue sand, or rock. From this
bluish substance the glow which bathed the two Earthlings seemed to
emanate.

The funnel of the crater had now given away to the immensities of
space, in all directions, and the cold of outside was being replaced
by a warmth which promised soon to be even uncomfortable.

Then, without a jar, the two landed at the bottom of the crater, side
by side, close enough almost to that great cone to touch it. Out of
the cone came that bluish column, to shoot up through the funnel down
which the two had lightly dropped ... and the motion of the--whatever
it was--was accompanied by a muted moaning sound, like that of a
distant waterfall.

They paused there, in amazement, taking stock of their surroundings.
Huge tunnels, whose roofs were lost to invisibility in the bluish
haze, whose extremities could only be guessed at, reached off in all
directions. As far as the two could tell they were the only living
souls within the crater, though both knew better.

Sarka had the feeling, and he knew Jaska shared it with him, that
innumerable eyes were studying them, innumerable intellects were
cataloguing them. And somehow he sensed the presence, somewhere near,
of the traitor Dalis!

       *       *       *       *       *

Then that discordant sound again, breaking so swiftly that it fell
upon the eardrums of Sarka and Jaska like the crack of doom. Out of
the many tunnels, from all directions, came hordes of beings which
would have made the nightmares of Paracelsus--first of the scientists
of Earth--pale to insignificance.

Paracelsus had written and illustrated his nightmares. Had hinted of
strange acts of flesh-grafting--as the grafting of legs on the head of
man. He had spoken, and written about, ghastly operations, from which
men came forth as part men, part spiders; part men, part scorpions,
dogs, cats, crocodiles....

Sarka thought, as his mind went back to those ancient books of his
people in which still remained vestiges of the theories of Paracelsus,
that somehow, in his dreams, Paracelsus must have visited the craters
of the Moon.

These people ... if they could be called people....

They had heads like the heads of Earthlings, broad-domed of brow,
lacking eyelashes or lids, so that their eyes were perpetually
staring. They possessed no bodies at all, and their legs, thin and
attenuated to the size of the wrists of average men, seemed to support
the massive heads with difficulty!

From all directions they came, looking like spiders such as Sarka the
First had described to Sarka, when Sarka had been a mere boy. They
came on the floor, out of the tunnels; they dropped from the walls of
the tunnels, and down from the invisible roofs, landing on the floor
as lightly as feathers--and all converged on Jaska and Sarka.

They seemed to have no fear at all, but only a vast curiosity.

Closer and closer they came.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jaska's grip tightened on the hand of Sarka, for one of the creatures,
with a spiderish leap, had jumped upon her, fastening its legs in her
tight-fitting costume, where he hung, his face within an inch or two
of hers. His lidless eyes, unblinking, stared deeply into hers.

Others jumped up beside the first, and still others clambered over
Sarka, until both Sarka and Jaska were covered by them like beetles
attacked by ants. But these strange gnomelike creatures, who did not
fear these strangers, apparently meant them no harm.

Then, after a thorough scrutiny, began the strangest talking Sarka had
ever heard. The crater-Gnomes seemed to communicate by making strange
clucking sounds with their tongues, sounds which were unmusical and
discordant, and which, as the Gnomes who stood back from them, because
already the two were covered until no more could cling to Jaska or
Sarka, joined in the speech--mounted in the cavern to a vast crescendo
of sound.

Sarka knew then that this was the sound which had come out to them
while they crouched at the crater rim. These were people of the Moon:
but if these were Moon-men, what, or who, were those gleaming cubes?

"Stand perfectly still," Sarka mentally admonished Jaska, "they
apparently mean us no harm!"

He had not spoken aloud, had not allowed his thought to reach any but
Jaska; yet instantly the discordant clucking ceased, and the Gnomes
were quiet, as though they politely listened to someone who had
interrupted them, yet whose interruption they resented, or were
curious about.

       *       *       *       *       *

Wondering how the creature would regard his action, Sarka reached
forth and plucked away the first Gnome which had jumped upon Jaska,
and placed him gently on the ground. The thing merely stared at Sarka
with his lidless eyes, as though wondering at Sarka's meaning. Then
his lips, which were triangular, rather than straight as those of
Earthlings, began again that strange clucking.

Immediately the Gnomes which clung to Jaska and Sarka dropped away,
and scuttled into the midst of the myriads that stood and watched.
They did not understand the speech of these Earthlings, but they were
unusually clever in comprehending the meaning of gestures.

"Hold fast to me, Jaska," thought Sarka toward her--and wondered anew
as the Gnomes instantly ceased their clucking sounds--"for I am going
to try an experiment."

Holding her hand still, he turned and strode straight toward the huge
cone out of which rose the bluish column.

Instantly the Gnomes broke into a frightful clucking of tongues, a
sound that mounted to ear-drum-breaking intensity, and in a trice,
climbing over one another to get into position, they moved in between
Sarka and the cone. So eager were they to bar his further progress
that they stood atop one another, until the depth of them was as tall
as Sarka standing upright.

Yet, though they plainly said to Sarka: "You must not approach the
cone," they did not seem to be angry with their visitors, but only
curious. Sarka looked at Jaska, noted how wanly she smiled.

Then he turned, and headed for the nearest of the monster tunnels.

       *       *       *       *       *

Instantly he detected a surprising eagerness in the renewed clucking
of tongues, while the Gnomes raced ahead, behind, all about the two,
capering like pet animals, showing these strangers the way into the
tunnel.

As they entered it, Sarka tried to discover whence came the bluish
glow. The floor seemed to be of bluish sandstone, though its color,
too, might have been caused by the glow. It was warm, too, so warm
that perspiration was breaking out on the cheeks of Sarka.

Whence came the glow? Apparently from the very walls of the tunnel, or
its roof; but surely from somewhere, surely from some secret place,
whence it was diffused all over.

"And Jaska," said Sarka, "the Moon, according to my father's
researches, is literally honeycombed with craters like this one!"

Again, as he thought, that strange, sudden cessation of the clucking
of the Gnomes. Whither were they leading them? It was plain to be seen
that the Gnomes were heading for some destination, almost herding
Sarka and Jaska toward it. Capering creatures, who behaved witlessly,
yet were far from witless. If Sarka were not sadly mistaken, these
were Moon-men--and women, too, perhaps, since he could not tell the
sex of them--and those gleaming cubes were their outer guards, perhaps
slaves.

If the cubes were really of metal--they had felt warm to Sarka's
touch--then these Moon-men had gone further in science than
Earthlings, as they had imbued at least some metals, or stones, with
intelligence sufficiently advanced for them to perform actions
independently of their masters' wills.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarka, too, was remembering another thing: that he had touched one of
these Gnomes, to remove it from Jaska--and had felt a distinct shock
that was patently electrical!

The bluish glow was increasing, becoming more soft and mellow, shading
gradually into golden, as they advanced--shading still as they
preceded until it was almost white, almost blinding, in its radiance.

Then, of a sudden, the clucking of the Gnomes ended, and the creatures
ceased their capering, fell into something that might have been an
ordered military formation, and with Jaska and Sarka in the midst of
them, moved straight toward a broad expanse of the tunnel wall, in the
face of which appeared three long lines, deeply cut in the shape of a
triangle.

The Gnome who had first leaped upon Jaska advanced to the wall, paused
with his face almost against the lower line of the triangle, and
remained there, intently staring, while the other Gnomes remained
mute and unmoving.

Stronger and stronger appeared the blinding light. Slowly the inner
portion of the triangle began to give inward, like a door. And out of
the opening came that blinding radiance.

As the triangular door stood entirely open, Sarka and Jaska stood in
thunderstruck silence, staring like people bereft of their senses. For
there, standing in the opening, the now white radiance itself a mantle
to cover her, was a woman, unclothed save for the radiance, who might
have been of the Earth, save that she was more beautiful than any
woman of Earth.

Beside her the radiant beauty of Jaska paled, became wan and sickly.

But Sarka noted immediately her eyes, whose depths bewildered, amazed
him. For in them he could see no expression, no feeling, but only
abysmal cruelty. That she was Sarka's master, and Jaska's master, and
master of all these Gnomes, became instantly apparent for
telepathically she addressed Sarka.

"I am busy now. The Moon-people will hold you prisoners in the Place
of the Blue light, until I am ready to give you to the Cone!"


CHAPTER XV

_The Place of the Blue Light_

So the Gnomes were Moon-people, masters of the Moon cubes! And people
and cubes were ruled by a woman who resembled a woman of Earth!

The Gnomes took them back the way they had come.

Where, Sarka wondered, were the people of the Gens of Dalis? And where
was Dalis himself! Sarka was sure that, in those first discords which
had come out of the crater, he had heard at least a hint of the
laughter of Dalis.

And this woman clothed in radiance--who was she? And what? That she
was a creature of the Moon, and yet resembled in all ways a woman of
Earth, save that she was more beautiful than any woman Sarka had ever
seen, seemed almost impossible to believe. Yet he had seen her. So had
Jaska, and as Sarka and Jaska, with the capering Gnomes still about
them, were led away to a fate at which they could only guess, Sarka
wondered at Jaska's silence and at the strange lack of expression on
her face.

He pressed her hand, but somehow she failed to return the pressure,
mystifying more than ever. This sudden coldness was not like Jaska.

Back they went through the vast cavern where the cone of the bluish
column still moaned and murmured. Sarka moved as close to the cone as
the Gnomes would permit, and peered up along the mighty length of the
column. At its tip was still the Earth, like a star viewed from the
bottom of a deep well.

Smaller, too, it seemed, which proved that Sarka's breaking of the
blue column had been but momentary, that the column had almost
instantly regained its contact with the Earth. What was its source,
what the composition of the column?

       *       *       *       *       *

At the moment there could be no answer to the question. Now the Gnomes
were escorting them into another tunnel, whose glow was even bluer
than that which the two had experienced in the other tunnels. And the
deeper they penetrated, the more distant from the cavern of the Cone,
the deeper in color became that light.

Finally the Gnome who had mentally asked permission of the Radiant
Woman to show her Jaska and Sarka passed before another expanse of
wall, identical in appearance with that of the wall of the triangle
from which the Radiant Woman had appeared.

This time the Gnome managed ingress by a strange clucking sound, with
his triangular lips held close to the base-line of the triangle.

Now the door swung open; but the radiance which now came out was not
clear white, as in the case of the outer door, but deeply, coldly
blue. For the first time the Gnomes used force with their prisoners,
thus proving to them that they were indeed prisoners. Their tiny feet
caught at Sarka and at Jaska, and forced them through the door, which
swung shut behind them.

Sarka looked at Jaska who, in this strange new light, had taken on the
color of indigo, and smiled at her. She did not return his smile, but
her eyes looked deeply, somewhat sorrowfully, into his. As though she
asked him a question he could not understand, to which he could
therefore give no answer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarka was now conscious of the fact that the heat of their
prison-house--whose character they did not as yet know--was becoming
almost unbearable. They were alone, too, for the Gnomes had not
entered the door of triangle. Sarka partially removed his life mask,
and testing the atmosphere of the place, found it capable of being
breathed without the mask. He signalled mentally to Jaska to remove
her mask, and when the girl had done so he took her in his arms and
kissed her on the lips.

She accepted his caress, but did not return it, and her eyes still
peered deeply into his.

"Well, beloved," he said. "I am terribly sorry. But I did not want you
to come because I was afraid that something of this sort would
happen."

She did not answer.

"What is it, Jaska?" he said at last.

"What did you think of that woman?" she asked softly.

"Beautiful!" he said enthusiastically. "Fearfully beautiful! But did
you see her eyes? She had no more mercy in her heart than if she were
made of stone! And she hated us both the moment she saw us!"

"And you, Sarka--did you hate her, too?"

Sarka stared at her, not comprehending.

"I feel," he said, "that if we are ever to escape her, we must kill
her, or render her incapable of retaining us!"

Then, of her own accord, Jaska placed her arms around Sarka, and gave
him her lips. Her new behavior was as incomprehensible to Sarka as her
former enigmatic expression had been. Wise in the ways of science was
Sarka, but he knew nothing of women!

       *       *       *       *       *

Now hand in hand again, they began a survey of their prison house. The
bluish glow was unbearable to the eyes, and tears came unbidden and
ran down the cheeks of the prisoners. In a minute or two, perspiration
was literally bathing the bodies of the two. After a questioning
exchange of glances, Sarka swiftly divested himself of his costume,
stripping down to the gray toga of Earth's manhood. With a shrug,
Jaska removed her clothing to her own toga, and the two suits Sarka
carried under his arm.

They started ahead, exploring, then sprang back with a cry of fright.
Sarka did not know whether it was Jaska or himself who had cried out;
for just as they moved forward, a rent opened in the floor at their
feet, and their eyes for a moment--they could stand no longer--peered
into a bluely flaming abyss which, save for the color, reminded Sarka
of the word pictures of Hell he had read in Earth's books of
antiquity!

As the two stepped back, the rent in the floor closed instantly. Sarka
had noted where the end of it had been, and started to detour, his
eyes on the floor.

Over to his left the bluely glowing wall reached up to invisible
immensity. But as he would have passed along the wall, the rent opened
again, effectually barring his way.

Beyond the rent he could see a vast continuation of the cavern, and he
felt that, could they only pass the rent, they might reach a place
where the heat was not so unbearable, and they could stay and talk in
comfort.

       *       *       *       *       *

Releasing Jaska, he stepped back and prepared to leap the spot where
the rent had been. High he jumped, and far, surprised at the length of
his own leap. He landed lightly, far beyond the area where the rent
had been, and even as he landed, a rent opened again at his feet, thus
effectually barring further progress!

"It could just as easily," he told himself, "have opened under my
feet, and dropped me into the abyss!"

From behind him came the sudden sound of screaming. He whirled to look
back, to see Jaska standing there, arms outstretched toward him, her
eyes wide with fear and horror, and as he stood watching, she raced to
him, unmindful of abysses that might open under her feet, and flung
herself into his arms.

"Come back!" she moaned. "Come back! Don't you see? _They_ don't wish
you to explore further! We are in their power, and must simply await
their pleasure, whoever or whatever they are! They see all we do!"

So they turned back, and stood against the door which held them
prisoners; and the heat of the place seemed to enter into them, to
gnaw at their very vitals. After a time Sarka found himself almost
tearing at his throat, fighting for breath.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gasping, the tears bathing their cheeks until even their tears and
their perspiration would flow no more, they huddled now just inside
the massive stone door, arms about each other, and almost prayed for
death. Sarka at least prayed for death for both of them; but Jaska
prayed for a way of deliverance, prayed that herself and Sarka might
somehow win free, and be together again.

Sarka, who knew little of women, marveled at the grandeur of her
courage, and wondered that he really knew this radiant woman so
little. He compared her in his mind with the unclothed woman who had
ordered them here as prisoners, and it came to him that Jaska was all
perfection, all tender womanhood, while the Radiant Woman was a
monster, without soul or compassion--a creature of horror who mocked
God with her outward seeming of perfection.

Jaska read his thoughts, and smiled wanly to herself, and Sarka
wondered how, suffering as he knew she must be suffering, she could
find the courage to smile.

Then, for a time, the two became comatose, mastered by the blue heat,
and in dreamlike imaginings wandered in strange fields which could
only, to these two, have been racial memories, since neither had ever
seen such fields. There were cool streams, all a-murmur, and breezes
which cooled their sun-tanned cheeks. Water touched their tongues, and
cooled their whole bodies as they gratefully imbibed it.

       *       *       *       *       *

In their wanderings, in which Sarka was a faun and Jaska a nymph, they
talked together in a language which only these two comprehended--a
language which dealt in figures of speech, a language which depended
upon handclasps for periods, glances of the eyes for commas, and the
singing of their hearts for complete understanding.

Then a cool breeze, cool by comparison, caressed their pain-distorted
cheeks, and the Gnomes came in, found them lying there, and clucked
endlessly as though wondering what to do with them.

From hand to tiny hand, their feet serving as hands, the Gnomes passed
garments--garments of the Gens of Dalis, and clothed again the two
whom the Place of the Blue Light had all but slain. Of that ghastly
experiment Sarka retained but one real memory....

That bluish light, in the midst of the abyss, shifting and swaying
like blue serpents swimming in Hades ... that bluish light of the
Cone, which he had broken up for a brief moment by the use of his ray
director. Was this bluish light in the abyss the source of the light
in the Cone? If one were to destroy it at its source....

The two regained consciousness completely as the triangular door
closed behind Sarka and Jaska and the Gnomes, and they were taken into
the refreshing coolness of the tunnel, led back again in the direction
of the room where they had seen the Radiant Woman. Both Jaska and
Sarka noticed that they were clothed in new clothing, and a shy blush
tinged the cheeks of Jaska as her eyes met those of Sarka.

       *       *       *       *       *

This time they entered the vast chamber of radiance behind the first
triangular door, and were forced to their knees to do obeisance to the
Radiant Woman, who sat on a gleaming yellow stone for dais! The guards
who forced Sarka and Jaska to their knees, were clothed in the green
of the Gens of Dalis, and Dalis himself, his face stern, but bearing
no sign of recognition of these two, stood at the right hand of the
Radiant Woman!

"You come to us as spies," the thought of the Radiant Woman impinged
upon the brains of Sarka and of Jaska, "and as spies you should be
given to the Cone. But if you swear eternal allegiance to me, to obey
me in all things, to forego your allegiance to Earth, your lives will
be spared! What say you?"

Boldly Sarka stared into the almost opaque eyes of the woman. Then his
glance went to the face of Dalis.

"What," he asked boldly, in the language of Earth, "does the traitor
Dalis say?"

"I have sworn allegiance to Luar, who addresses you, and am her ally
in all things! I have but one addition to make to what she says: Jaska
belongs to me!"

The sudden leering grin of Dalis was hideous.

Sarka peered at Jaska, framing his answer. But Jaska spoke first.

"For myself, O Dalis," she said swiftly, "I can answer in but one way.
Return me to the Place of the Blue Light, and forget me there!"

Sarka smiled, while his heart leaped with joy.

"And I, O Luar," he said mentally to the Radiant Woman, "prefer death
with Jaska, at the Place of the Blue Light, than life as a traitor to
the world of my nativity!"

Instantly Luar began the clucking sound which was the language of the
Gnomes, at the same time allowing her thoughts as she spoke to impress
themselves upon the brains of the prisoners.

"Take them away! Take them to the Cavern of the Cone, and when they
have suffered as much as such inferior beings are capable of
suffering, thrust them into the base of the Cone!"


CHAPTER XVI

_Cavern of the Cone_

The Gnomes had been bidden to take the prisoners to the Cavern of the
Cone, but to the surprise of Sarka and Jaska, they were taken back to
the Place of the Blue Light! This time the Gnomes entered the place
with them, closing and securing the door behind them.

But the Place of the Blue Light had changed!

Now it had no floor of blue, as it had had before, but only a corridor
perhaps wide enough to allow the passage of four grown men, walking
side by side, while the abyss of which the two had got but the merest
hint through the opening and closing rents filled all the center of
the place!

The Gnomes seemed impervious to the unendurable heat, and these,
moving together, one behind the other, one beside the other, one atop
the other, formed a living wall between Sarka and Jaska and the rim of
the flaming blue abyss, to protect them from the heat.

Yet through the bodies of this living wall of Gnomes, a wall which was
higher than the heads of Sarka and Jaska, the heat forced its way to
the prisoners, and burned them anew with its agony.

To what dread rendezvous were they going? Where, save for the few
guards at the house of Luar, were the people of the Gens of Dalis?
Sarka felt, somehow, that the answers to all these questions would
soon be made manifest, and a feeling of exaltation he could not
explain was possessing him as he advanced. Around the corridor, whose
one side was the wall reaching up to invisibility, whose other side
dropped off into the abyss, the Gnomes herded the prisoners.

       *       *       *       *       *

The leader of the Gnomes was again the Gnome who had first leaped upon
Jaska to examine her curiously. Now, watching the lidless eyes of this
being, Sarka fancied he could detect a hint of some expression. The
Gnome was excited at some prospect, some climax which they were
approaching. What? On and on they moved. The blue flames from the
abyss, roaring in a way that neither of the prisoners had ever
experienced, reached upward in searing tongues toward the invisible
roof of this place.

Then, when they had progressed far from the door of entry, Sarka
gasped at a new manifestation. Out of the abyss, some distance ahead,
came a gleaming thing, something that had apparently evolved itself
out of the flames of the abyss. Blue of color it was, because of the
flames from the pit; but Sarka recognized it with a start which he
could not suppress nor understand.

It was one of those cubes, such as he and Jaska had seen at the lip of
the Moon-crater! As they approached, guided by the Gnomes, other cubes
appeared out of the abyss, others in numbers swiftly augmented, until
a veritable battalion of them had marshalled itself, there at the lip
of the abyss.

       *       *       *       *       *

Straight toward these cubes the Gnomes led Sarka and Jaska, and when
they had reached the center of the group, they halted, forming a
circle, still a wall to mask the prisoners from the heat of the abyss.
The leader of the Gnomes stopped with his face, his lidless eyes,
close to one of the cubes.

For a moment he paused thus, and Sarka felt sure that somehow the
Gnome was holding thought converse with the cube; but, try as he
might, he could find no meaning in the weird conversation for himself.
It was oddly like listening to a conversation in a code beyond his
knowledge.

Then the Gnome turned back to Sarka and Jaska. By a pressure of tiny
feet, he tried to indicate that Sarka and Jaska should unclasp their
hands. But they only clung the tighter, and now threw their arms about
each other.

The Gnome desisted, much to the joy of the lovers, while Sarka studied
the cubes, wondering what their mission was with Jaska and himself.

Slowly, together, the cubes began to lose their bluish glow, their
cube shape--to vanish utterly.

In a trice, still locked in each other's arms, Sarka and Jaska saw the
Gnomes through what appeared to be an even bluer haze. Besides, the
heat of the abyss no longer tortured them, and their bodies were
cooling in a way that was unbelievably refreshing.

"What is it, beloved?" whispered Jaska. "What is it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarka stared at the Gnomes, now in retreat, capering as they had first
capered when the two had fallen into their hands, toward the door by
which all had entered. Mystified, Sarka put forth his hand. It came in
contact with something solid, and oddly warm, which stirred an
instantly responsive chord in the brain of Sarka.

This feeling was the same as he experienced when he had lifted those
cubes and hurled them into the crater--where they had dissolved in
falling, and instantly reappeared, each under its own aircar!

"Jaska!" he explained. "Jaska! The cubes have dissolved themselves,
and have reformed in the shape of a globe, as a protective covering
about us, to protect us from the heat of the abyss! Apparently we are
not to be killed at once! These cubes are slaves of the Gnomes, of
whom Luar is ruler!"

They were indeed locked inside a globe, a globe whose integral parts
were the cubes of their acquaintance; and the atmosphere of the
interior was not uncomfortable, but otherwise. Sarka and Jaska were
feeling normal for the first time since they had landed on the Moon.
But what was the meaning of this strange imprisonment?

They were soon to know!

For the globe which enclosed them, moved to the edge of the flaming
abyss, and dropped into the bluish glow! It did not drop heavily, like
a falling object on Earth, but rather floated downward, right into the
heart of the flames. At this new manifestation of the strangeness of
science on the Moon, Sarka was at once all scientist himself, striving
to find adequate answers for things which, from cause to effect, were
entirely new to him. With Jaska still clasped close against him, he
seated himself in the base of the globe and studied the area through
which they were passing.

Blue flames which seemed to be born somewhere, an infinite distance
below them; blue flames which he knew to be the element that, shot
outward from the great cone, had forced the Moon away from the Earth.

No sound of the roaring flames came through the globe, but every
movement of them was visible.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarka turned and peered through the bottom of the globe; but all he
could see below were the flames, a molten indigo lake of them. Now, as
they floated downward, the glow was giving away to lighter blue, to
white, almost pure white, like the radiance which covered Luar like a
mantle.

Sarka felt himself on the eve of vast important discoveries, and the
scientist in him made him, for the moment, almost forget the woman at
his side. Jaska, unbothered about anything, now that Sarka was at her
side, regarded his expression of deep concentration with a tolerant
smile.

Whiter now was the light, and faster fell the globe which held the
two.

The color of the globe, now fallen below the area of blue, had taken
on, chameleonlike, the color of the white flames that bathed it.

Then, apparently right in the center of a lake of white flames, though
Sarka could see no solid place on which the globe had landed, the
globe came to rest.

Now everything was plain to see, and Sarka studied his surroundings
with new interest. He felt a mounting sensation of scalp-prickling
horror.

For, scattered throughout the lake of white flames, in all directions,
as far as the eye could reach--standing alone, suffering untold
agonies, from the expressions on their faces--were people of the Gens
of Dalis!

       *       *       *       *       *

No longer were they clothed in green and wearing on breast and back
the yellow stars of their Gens. Now they were nude as they had come
into the world and standing there, each was holding out hands in
horror, to hold back myriads of the Gnomes, who would have forced them
to submerge themselves in the white flames of the lake!

Was the Gens of Dalis being burned alive? What was the meaning of
this?

For a moment, filled with horror, Sarka looked away from the
spectacle. Off to his right, as he sat, he noted that the flames,
which here seemed lighter than they had in high levels, were
converging on a single spot toward the side of the lake of white
flames--as smoke converges on the base of a chimney leading outward to
the air!

He knew as he stared that he was gazing at the spot where the bluish
column of the cone was born!

Shaking his head, he turned back to the mighty spectacle of this
horrible thing that was being done to the people of the Gens of Dalis.

In his brain there suddenly crashed a thought whose source he could
only guess at, whose meaning mystified him more than anything yet
experienced. The thought might have emanated from Luar, or from Dalis.
But the more he thought of the matter, the more he thought how the
phrasing of the thought was like the telepathy of Sarka the Second,
now thousands of miles away, upon the Earth. And this was the thought:

"If they fight the flames, the flames will destroy them! If they go
into them freely, voluntarily, they will be rendered immune to heat
and to cold, to life and to death. But it is better that they die, for
Earth's sake!"

What did it mean?

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarka thought of the radiant white light which perpetually bathed the
person of Luar, and thought that he had somehow been given a hint of
its source. If the Gens of Dalis were voluntarily bathed in the lake
of white flames, would they become as Luar?

Somehow, though he knew that such bathing would save their lives, the
idea filled him anew with horror. He found himself torn between two
duties. If he sent his thought out there to the Gens of Dalis, people
of Earth, his people, they would be saved, but might forever become
allies of the people of the Moon. If Sarka did not tell them, they
would die--and there were millions of them.

But his science had always been a science of Life, and it still was.

"Enter the flames!" he telepathically bade his people. "Enter the
flames!"

But they did not heed him, and for the first time the atmosphere of
the interior of the globe seemed filled with savage, abysmal menace!
Plain to Sarka was the meaning of that menace: The cubes which
composed this globe were loyal to their masters, the masters to a
mistress, Luar, and would countenance no meddling.

Likewise it was impossible, if the Gnomes willed it to the cubes, for
Sarka to transmit his thoughts to the Gens of Dalis through the
transparent walls of the globe!

They were prisoners, indeed, of Dalis and of Luar!

       *       *       *       *       *

But could Sarka and Jaska turn their new-found knowledge to their own
use? Sarka was thinking back, back to one of the ancient tomes of his
people. It spoke, someplace, of a man who had got trapped in the heart
of a seething volcano, where the heat of it had cured him of his
illnesses, made him whole again, given him new youth and freshness.

But since the cubes could forestall his transmission of thought, and
perhaps could read and understand thoughts, how was he to tell Jaska?
How show her that a way of deliverance had been given into their
hands, if they only possessed the courage to use it!

Again came that thought, which Sarka recognized as the telepathy of
his father:

"Courage! You will win, and Jaska with you!"

Thoughts could come in to them then, but could not go out. Or did it
mean that the cubes, or the masters of the cubes, did not care if the
prisoners received messages from outside, because they knew themselves
capable of frustrating anything the prisoners planned? Perhaps. More
than likely that was it.

But, looking through the bottom of the globe, into the sea of white
flames below, Sarka gripped more tightly his ray director, and tried
to marshal the forces of his courage. There was surely some way of
escape. Some way out of their strange predicament.


CHAPTER XVII

_Casting the Die_

Somehow Sarka believed that this white radiance of the abyss held the
secret of the omnipotence of Luar, if omnipotence she possessed. That
she did seemed sure, else Dalis would not have been with her. Besides,
she had asked Sarka and Jaska to swear allegiance to her. Yes the
secret was here, in the heart of the lake of white flames.

It might have been the Moon Fountain of Youth, or of omnipotence.
There was no telling, unless Sarka tried an experiment.

His fury at Dalis now knew no bounds, and he was conscious of a
desire, too poignant almost to be borne, in some way to circumvent the
arch-traitor. For here in the craters of the Moon Dalis was working
out a strange amplification of the scheme which he had, centuries
before, proposed to Sarka the First. He was subjecting the people of
his Gens to the white flames.

If they immersed themselves voluntarily, they became as Luar was, but
still subservient to the will of Dalis--and, in his hands, invincible
instruments of war! Dalis had doubtless already been bathed in the
flames. Sarka was not sure, for in the home of Luar the white light
was so blinding it would have been impossible to make sure that the
white radiance clothed the others with Luar.

"That's it!" said Sarka to himself. "That's it! Dalis and those guards
at the dais of Luar have already been subjected to the white flames!
The rest who immerse themselves, voluntarily, come forth as Luar and
Dalis! Who do not, die. Dalis' manner of forcing the survival of the
fittest! His idea of the flood in grandfather's time, only now he
causes his selection by flames instead of flood! He believes that only
those worthy to survive, and to stand at his back in whatever he
conceives to be his need, will guess the secret of the immersion. The
others will die!"

       *       *       *       *       *

What a terrible alternative, when Dalis could as easily have given the
secret to all his people! Could have told them how to save themselves!
But it was not Dalis' way. Here, in the beginning of what was to
become a dual sovereignty of the Moon, Dalis had already taken thought
on the matter of over-population, and was destroying the many that the
few--the strongest, most ruthless--might survive! Hundreds of
thousands, millions of the Gens of Dalis, stood at the door of life,
and did not know how to enter, merely because Dalis withheld the key!
And, pausing in terror before the flames, they died, when a step and a
plunge would have saved them all!

"If he lives to be a million, if he lives through everlasting life,"
said Sarka to himself, "and does penance through a thousand
reincarnations, Dalis can never atone for this wholesale destruction
of humanity! But I ... I wonder!"

Sarka realized the nicety of the revenge of Dalis upon Jaska and
himself. Dalis had not given the secret to the prisoners, but by his
use of the cubes, he had plunged them into the very heart of the
horror, where they could see the suffering of the people of the Gens.
Then, when they had seen and appreciated the horror of it all, they
would follow the people of the Gens to death!

But Luar had spoken of thrusting them into the base of the Cone!

       *       *       *       *       *

Then they were not for the flames after all! How could it be done? The
globe composed of the cubes had but to transport the prisoners to the
base of the Cone, press against that base, and open to let the
prisoners free--and in the heart of the white-blue column they would
be hurled outward from the Moon, into space. The mere prospect of such
horror caused the perspiration to break forth anew on the body of
Sarka.

But there might be a way.

"I wonder," he asked himself, "if the Earth people in _this_ crater
could read my thoughts in spite of their agonies, if I could get my
thought to them through the globe? I wonder if, reading my thoughts,
they would obey?"

Bit by bit, as parts of a puzzle fall into place, he made his plan,
and his heart beat high with excitement. Jaska bent before him to look
into his eyes, and he knew that she was trying to read his face. She
knew, wise Jaska, that this brilliant lover of hers was making a plan,
and she believed in the sure success of it because it would be _his_!

She smiled at him, her courage high, and waited!

Holding the ray director between his body and that of Jaska, he took a
terrible, ghastly chance. Dalis had known the secret sign manual of
these two; but would the intelligence of the cubes comprehend it? He
must take the chance, slender as it seemed. His free hand began to
spell out, with all speed, the mad plan he had conceived.

"The white flames are harmless if one plunges into them voluntarily.
Are you afraid to attempt it? No? Then unfasten your clothing, and
have it so arranged that you can drop entirely out of it when I give
you the signal, which will be a mere widening of the eyes, like this!
You understand? We must go nude into the flames, so that they will
bathe our whole bodies! But, when you slip out of your clothing, tear
your anti-gravitational ovoid from the skull-pan of your helmet, and
hold it in your mouth! Then depend upon me, and have no fear!"

"I have no fear," replied the fingers of Jaska. "I go to death with
you if you wish--or to Life!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Feeling the menace of the cubes almost gripping at his throat as he
got into action, Sarka unfastened his own clothing, ripped the ovoid
from his helmet, placed it in his mouth. Then, looking at Jaska, he
gave her the signal.

Instantly, at her nod, he brought forth the ray director, pressed it
with his fingers, directing its muzzle toward the curve of the globe,
swinging it around in a circle, cutting out the bottom of the globe of
cubes.

The action must have been one of untold surprise to the cubes which
made up the globe, for before anything could be done to stay the hand
of Sarka, his ray director had cut out the bottom of the globe, and
Jaska and himself, divested now of all clothing, had fallen from the
globe.

Unbearable heat slashed and tore at them. They still held hands, and
when their feet touched upon something solid, they were gasping with
the unbelievable heat; and it was ripping at their lungs like talons
of white hot steel. But, pausing not at all, Sarka raced ahead with
Jaska, and dived straight into the lake of white flames.

As he dived he directed his thoughts toward the people of the Gens who
stood, undecided, dying by slow inches, on their little oases in the
lake. And this was the thought, which was a command.

"Plunge into the flames! They will not hurt you! Plunge in, and obey
my commands, O people of the Gens of Dalis! I, Sarka, command that you
obey me! Jaska, who commanded you at the will of Dalis, also commands.
Gather with Jaska and me at the base of the Cone! You have but to
follow the converging of the flames!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Together the two plunged in, and it seemed all at once as though the
fire had gone out of the white flames, for they were cool and soothing
to the touch. Sarka could feel new life being borne in him, could feel
himself revitalized, exalted, lifted to the heights. He suddenly
experienced the desire to run, and shout his joy for all to hear. But
reason held him. Not thus easily would Luar and Dalis, the traitor,
give over their designs against these two.

But in the heart of the flames, they dropped down, while they turned
their faces toward the base of the Cone, or where they thought the
base to be, even as Sarka gave another command to the now invisible
people of the Gens of Dalis.

"Hold your ovoids in your mouths and follow! Obey my will!"

They dropped now to what seemed to be cool flagstones, while above
them showed an orifice in a wall, into which those tongues of flame
were darting. They paused there, side by side, their faces radiant,
and looked back the way they had come.

Coming out of the white flames, like battalions on parade, were the
people of the Gens of Dalis--scores and hundreds of them, who had
sensed and heeded the mental commands of Sarka. Like genii appearing
out of the flames they came, to muster about Sarka and Jaska.

Then, when it seemed that no more were coming, Sarka turned to the
base of the Cone, his face high shining with courage and confidence,
and stepped straight into the flames that led into the Cone. Beside
him came Jaska, while behind him came the people of the Gens of Dalis
who dared to do as he had commanded.

They were sucked into the Cone like chips sucked into a whirlpool, and
Sarka willed a last command as they entered:

"Quit the column at the lip of the crater, and muster about the
aircars!"


CHAPTER XVIII

_The People of Radiance_

The exaltation of Sarka knew no bounds, and looking into the eyes of
Jaska, he knew she felt it, too. For her face was shining, and all of
her, the wondrous shining brilliance of her, was bathed in the white
radiance that mantled Luar. And now, since Jaska too knew that
radiance, her beauty was greater even than that of Luar. Sarka
thrilled anew at the glory of her.

But even as he stepped into the base of the Cone, he stepped out of
the blue column at the lip of the Moon-crater. Swift as light, and
swifter, had been the flight upward from the Cavern of the Cone; yet,
so keen were his perceptions, he knew when he had passed through the
chamber of the bluish glow, into which he and Jaska had first dropped
upon arrival.

Now they were on the lip of the crater, and the people of the Gens who
had followed him, were slipping out of the blue column, like insects
out of a flame, and converging on the aircars whose tentacles still
waved as they had when Sarka had last seen them.

Sarka looked at these people in amazement. To him there was a divinity
now about their nudeness which nudity never before had suggested to
him. For the people shone, and there was something glorious in those
divinely white bodies. They reminded Sarka of his people's books of
antiquity, and his childhood's pictures of angels....

But the effect of those white flames!...

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no explaining it. But Sarka felt that whatever he willed to
do he could do; that whatever he wished for was his, whether it was
his by right or no. He felt that he could move mountains, with only
the aid of his hands. Looking at Jaska he conceived all sorts of new
beauty in her, for she was the brightest, to him, of all the people
who had passed through the lake of white flames, and been cleansed in
their heat.

"No wonder Luar has mastered the Moon!" he cried to Jaska. "For when
she was bathed in the white flames, her will is paramount!"

"But how, if she passes the people of the Gens of Dalis through the
flames, will she retain her sovereignty?"

"Because Dalis, too, has passed through, and his will is the will of
the Gens! They will obey him, and he has sworn allegiance to Luar, or
given some sort of oath of fealty!"

"How strange that but one person on the Moon has been bathed in the
white flames!"

"How do we know," Sarka almost whispered it, "that she is, originally,
of the Moon? Does she not look too much like our people, to be from
another world entirely?"

"I do not know, but ... you mean ... you mean...?"

"I scarcely know; but Dalis would swear allegiance to no man, much
less to a woman, unless he knew that man, or woman, far better than he
has had opportunity, in a matter of hours only, to know Luar!"

He left it there then, as he strode boldly, with Jaska by his side, to
the nearest of the aircars.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he approached the car, the gleam cube beneath it seemed to gleam
brighter and brighter, as though it echoed the radiance of Sarka.
Sarka knew, studying this phenomenon, that he possessed at least a
hint of the secret of Luar's omnipotence. There had been a hint
before, but by now its meaning was clearer. The white flames, out of
the heart of the dying Moon, gave new life, exaltation, not only to
the bodies but to the brains of those who passed through it, and with
their brains quickened, they possessed such knowledge as men of Earth,
for ages, had wished to possess.

Transmutation of metals ... the ability, at will, to endow the higher,
more selective metals with intelligence ... and the ability to retain
command of the intelligences thus endowed. This explained the power of
Luar over the Gnomes, and the power of the Gnomes over the cubes--if
they possessed that power.

But the Gnomes, what of them? What were they?

But for a space Sarka must await the answer to that question, for
there was little time. Already he knew that the tale of his escape,
and his taking over of a portion of the Gens of Dalis, must have gone
like wildfire through all the crater, and from this crater, perhaps,
had been transmitted to all the craters of the Moon. All the
craters....

       *       *       *       *       *

That explained to him the absence from the lake of white flames, where
he had seen so few, comparatively, of the people of Dalis' Gens. The
Moon was honeycombed by such craters, and perhaps the white flame
connected them all, made them all one. And Luar commanded all from her
dais in this crater Sarka and his people were escaping. The millions
of the Gens had been swallowed by the craters of the Moon, at command
of Luar, acceded to by Dalis--and all over the Moon the very things
which Sarka and Jaska had witnessed were taking place.

Even now, as Sarka raced for the aircar, and Jaska with him, he could
feel a backward pulling that was well-nigh invincible. Someone was
willing him to return, willing the Gnomes to pursue him, willing the
cubes to refuse obedience to him; but he laughed and stepped to the
aircar, passing by the nearest writhing tentacle as though he knew it
possessed no power to harm him. The tentacle swept aside, and did not
try to bar him, while he sent his will crashing against that brightly
gleaming cube. "Into the aircar! We enter with you!"

The cube vanished instantly, and it seemed to Sarka that invisible
hands caught at his feet, lifting him up through the trap-door in the
belly of the aircar, up and inside. The door swung shut, and in the
forward end of the vast aircar gleamed the cube which had obeyed his
command!

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarka sent one thought careening outward from the aircar, a command to
the cubes which stood watch beneath the other aircars.

"Obey the Radiant People, and through them, _me_!"

The light of the cube made the interior of the aircar as light as day,
and Sarka was struck at once with another phenomenon. He could see
through the sides of the car in any direction.

And what he saw filled him with a sudden fear!

Out of the crater poured myriads of the Gnomes, and up the sides of it
came myriads of the gleaming cubes, all racing toward the cars.

"Get back! Get back!" he commanded the Gnomes and the cubes.

At the same time he issued his commands to the cube within his own
car, and to the cubes which by now were inside the other aircars,
realizing that the cubes themselves were the motive power of the
aircars--and that his will was the will of these individual cubes.

"Fly at once! Fly outward at top speed toward the Earth!"

Instantly, as though a single signal had started all the cars, a dozen
aircars rose majestically from the crater, while Sarka studied the
Gnomes and the cubes in turmoil on the rim. He noted then, a strange
circumstance: that when he commanded the Gnomes and the pursuing cubes
to keep back, they hesitated, dazedly, as though they did not know
whether to advance or to retreat; that when he merely watched them,
they came on.

He laughed aloud at this measuring of mental swords with Luar, and
with Dalis. For he could sense the conflict very plainly. She
commanded the Gnomes and the cubes to attack, he commanded them to
retreat, and they remained undecided, like people drawn between two
extremities, and uncertain which direction to take.

Upward, side by side now, floated the aircars of the Moon, and in the
forepeak of each, one of the gleaming cubes, like--like
anti-gravitational ovoids of the Moon! At the fast falling rim of the
crater boiled the Gnomes and the cubes, stirring and tumbling,
hampered by their very numbers, as they tried to attack at will of
Luar and retreated in confusion at the will of Sarka.

Then there was Jaska beside Sarka, her face fearful, as he pointed off
across the gloomy expanse of the Moon.

From all sides, from all directions, from other craters which these
two had not even seen, came scores and hundreds of the monster cars!

They had beaten Luar and Dalis but for a moment, then! Now, at her
command, the countless other aircars were coming in to head them off,
to fight them back to the surface of the Moon. It would be a race
against time, and against death. But of at least a dozen of the
aircars, Sarka was master, and he did not fear the issue. That strange
exaltation which the white flames had given him filled him with a
confidence that nothing could shake.

He shot a thought at the gleaming cube in the forepeak.

"Faster! Faster! There is no limit to your speed! Faster! Faster! Even
faster!"

Instantly the Moon seemed literally to drop away beneath the dozen
aircars which carried the Radiant People, while the aircars of Luar
and of Dalis fell hopelessly behind.

Sure that they would win in this race now, since he was just beginning
to realize the vastness of his power--the all-encompassing,
all-mastering power of the human mind and will, which the white flames
of the Moon had made almost god-like--Sarka turned his eyes toward a
coldly gleaming sphere in the star-spangled heavens ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was the Earth, and it seemed ringed in flames! From its edges there
seemed to shoot long streamers of yellow or golden flames, which broke
into sunlike pinwheels of radiance at their tips. Something, there on
the precious Earth, was decidedly wrong!

Instantly, telepathically, he sought to gain mental contact with his
father.

"Father, we are coming!" he said, across those countless miles. "What
is happening?"

For a full minute there was no answer. Then it came, feeble, broken,
weighted with fear; but it was a thought-message, unmistakably, of
Sarka the Second.

"Hurry, son! Hurry! For Dalis has indeed betrayed us! I could not
maintain control of the Earth with the Beryls, for some strange
catastrophe has destroyed all the Beryls in the area Dalis ruled! The
shifting of positions of the Earth and the Moon has so altered the
relative effects of the pull of gravity exerted by the planets that
Mars has been brought into dangerous proximity to us and is already so
close that her ether-lights are playing over us! Surely you must be
able to see them! We have received messages, but as yet I have only
been partially able to decode them! What I have decoded, however,
presages catastrophe--for I am sure that Mars and the Moon are in
confederation, and that the Moon-people have deliberately forced us
into contact with her ally!"

Cold fear clutched at the throat of Sarka as he caught the message. He
decided not to tell Jaska for the moment. He looked to right and left,
at the aircars on either side of him, then issued his commands.

"Faster! Faster! Be prepared to land in the area of the Gens of
Cleric, as close as possible to my laboratory!"

A strange, awesome sight, that flight of the rebels of Dalis' Gens
from the Moon to the Earth--like gleaming stars across the void. Far
out in Space they fled at terrific speed through almost utter
darkness, but their light was still blinding, lighting the way.

(_Concluded in the next issue_)




Murder Madness

CONCLUSION OF A FOUR-PART NOVEL

_By Murray Leinster_

[Illustration: _The deck was covered with panic-stricken folk who had
come in awful terror to watch. And all were slaves to The Master._]

[Sidenote: Bell has fought through tremendous obstacles to find and
kill The Master, whose diabolical poison makes murder-mad snakes of
the hands; and, as he faces the monster at last--his own hands start
to writhe!]


CHAPTER XV

The door of the car swung wide, and Ortiz's pale grim face peered in
behind the blue steel barrel of his automatic. He smiled queerly as
Jamison, with a grunt of relief, tapped Bell's wrist in sign to put
away his weapon.

"Ah, very well," said Ortiz, with the same queer smile upon his face.
"One moment."

He disappeared. On the instant there was the thunderous crashing of a
weapon. Bell started up, but Jamison thrust him back. Then Ortiz
appeared again with smoke still trickling from the barrel of his
pistol.

"I have just done something that I have long wished to do," he
observed coolly. "I have killed the chauffeur and his companion. You
may alight, now. I believe we will have half an hour or more. It will
do excellently."

He offered his hand to Paula as she stepped out. She seemed to shudder
a little as she took it.

"I do not blame you for shuddering, Senorita," he said politely, "but
men who are about to die may indulge in petty spites. And the
chauffeur was a favorite with the deputy for whom I am substituting.
Like all favorites of despots, he had power to abuse, and abused it. I
could tell you tales, but refrain."

       *       *       *       *       *

The car had come to a stop in what seemed to be a huge warehouse, and
by the sound of water round about, it was either near or entirely
built out over the harbor. A large section near the outer end was
walled off. Boxes, bales, parcels and packages of every sort were
heaped all about. Bell saw crated air engines lying in a row against
one wall. There were a dozen or more of them. Machinery, huge cases of
foodstuffs....

"The Buenos Aires depot," said Ortiz almost gaily. "This was the point
of receipt for all the manufactured goods which went to the _fazenda_
of Cuyaba, Senor Bell. Since you destroyed that place, it has not been
so much used. However, it will serve excellently as a tomb. There are
cases of hand grenades yonder. I advise you to carry a certain number
with you. The machine guns for the air-craft, with their ammunition,
are here...."

He was hurrying them toward the great walled-off space as he talked,
his automatic serving as a pointer when he indicated the various
objects.

"Now, here," he added as he unlocked the door, "is your vessel. The
Master bought only amphibian planes of late. Those for Cuyaba were
assembled in this little dock and took off from the water. Your
destruction up there, Senor Bell, left one quite complete but
undelivered. I think another, crated, is still in the warehouse. I
have been very busy, but if you can fuel and load it before we are
attacked...."

They were in a roofed and walled but floorless shed, built into the
warehouse itself. Water surged about below them, and on it floated a
five passenger plane, fully assembled and apparently ready to fly,
but brand new and so far unused.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'll look it over," said Bell, briefly. He swung down the catwalk
painted on the wings. He began a swift and hasty survey. Soot on the
exhaust stacks proved that the motors had been tried, at least.
Everything seemed trim and new and glistening in the cabin. The fuel
tanks showed the barest trace of fuel. The oil tanks were full to
their filling-plugs.

He swung back up.

"Taking a chance, of course," he said curtly. "If the motors were all
right when they were tried, they probably are all right now. They may
have been tuned up, and may not. I tried the controls, and they seem
to work. For a new ship, of course, a man would like to go over it
carefully, but if we've got to hurry...."

"I think," said Ortiz, and laughed, "that haste would be desirable.
Herr Wiedkind--No! _Amigo mio_, it was that damned Antonio Calles who
listened to us last night. I found pencil marks beside the listening
instrument. He must have sat there and eavesdropped upon me many weary
hours, and scribbled as men do to pass the time. He had a pretty taste
in monograms.... I gave all the orders that were needful for you to
take off from the flying field. I even went there myself and gave
additional orders. And Calles was there. Also others of The Master's
subjects. My treason would provoke a terrible revenge from The Master,
so they thought to prove their loyalty by permitting me to disclose my
plan and foil it at its beginning.

"I would have made the journey with you to The Master, but as a
prisoner with the tale of my treason written out. So I returned and
changed the orders to the chauffeur, when all the Master's loyal
subjects were waiting at the flying field. But soon it will occur to
them what I have done. They will come here. Therefore, hasten!"

"We want food," said Bell evenly, "and arms, but mostly we want fuel.
We'll get busy."

       *       *       *       *       *

He shed his coat and picked up a hand-truck. He rammed it under a drum
of gasoline and ran it to the walkway nearest to the floating plane.
Coiled against the wall there was a long hose with a funnel at its
upper end. In seconds he had the hose end in one of the wing
fuel-tanks. In seconds more he had propped the funnel into place and
was watching the gasoline gurgling down the hose.

"Paula," he said curtly, "watch this. When it's empty roll the drum
away so I can put another in its place."

She moved quickly beside it, throwing him a little smile. She set
absorbedly about her task.

Jamison arrived with another drum of gas before the first was emptied,
and Bell was there with a third while the second still gurgled. They
heaped the full drums in place, and Jamison suddenly abandoned his
truck to swear wrathfully and tear off his spectacles and fling them
against the wall. The bushy eyebrows and beard peeled off. His coat
went down. He began to rush loads of foodstuffs, arms, and other
objects to a point from which they could be loaded on the plane. Ortiz
pointed out the things he pantingly demanded.

In minutes, it seemed, he was demanding: "How much can we take? Any
more than that?"

"No more," said Bell. "All the weight we can spare goes for fuel. See
if you can find another hose and funnel and get to work on the other
tank. I'm going to rustle oil."

He came staggering back with heavy drums of it. A thought struck him.

"How do we get out? What works the harbor door?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ortiz pointed, smiling.

"A button, Senor, and a motor does the rest." He looked at his watch.
"I had better see if my fellow subjects have come."

He vanished, smiling his same queer smile. Bell worked frantically. He
saw Ortiz coming back, pausing to light a cigarette, and taking up a
hatchet, with which he attacked a packing case.

"They are outside, Senor," he called. "They have found the signs of
the car entering, and now are discussing."

He plucked something carefully from the packing box and went leisurely
back toward the door. Bell began to load the food and stores into the
cabin, with sweat streaming down his face.

There was the sound of a terrific explosion, and Bell jumped savagely
to solid ground.

"Keep loading! I'll hold them back!" he snapped to Jamison.

But when he went pounding to the back of the warehouse he found Ortiz
laughing.

"A hand grenade, Senor," he said in wholly unnatural levity. "Among
the subjects of The Master. I believe that I am going mad, to take
such pleasure in destruction. But since I am to die so shortly, why
not go mad, if it gives me pleasure?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He peered out a tiny hole and aimed his automatic carefully. It
spurted out all the seven shots that were left.

"The man who poisoned me," he said pleasantly. "I think he is dead. Go
back and make ready to leave, Senor Bell, because they will probably
try to storm this place soon, and then the police will come, and
then.... It is amusing that I am the one man to whom those enslaved
among the city authorities would look for The Master's orders."

Bell stared out. He saw a small horde of people, frantically agitated,
milling in the cramped and unattractive little street of Buenos Aires'
waterfront. Sheer desperation seemed to impel them, desperation and a
frantic fear. They surged forward--and Ortiz flung a hand grenade. Its
explosion was terrific, but he had perhaps purposely flung it short.
Bell suddenly saw police uniforms, fighting a way through to the front
of the crowd and the source of all this disturbance.

"Go back," said Ortiz seriously. "I shall die, Senor Bell. There is
nothing else for me to do. But I wish to die with Latin melodrama." He
managed a smile. "I will give you ten minutes more. I can hold off the
police themselves for so long. But you must hasten, because there are
police launches."

       *       *       *       *       *

He held out his hand. Bell took it.

"Good luck," said Ortiz.

"You can come--" began Bell, wrenched by the gaiety on Ortiz's face.

"Absurd," said Ortiz, smiling. "I should be murder mad within three
days. This is a preferable death, I assure you. Ten minutes, no more!"

And Bell went racing back and found Jamison rolling away the last of
the fuel drums and Paula looking anxiously for him.

"Tanks full," said Jamison curtly. "Everything set. What next?"

"Engines," said Bell.

He swung down and jerked a prop over. Again, and again.... The motor
caught. He went plunging to the other. Minutes.... They caught. He
throttled them down to the proper warming up roaring, while the air in
the enclosed space grew foul.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once more to the warehouse. Ortiz shouted and waved his hand. He was
filling his pockets with hand grenades. Bell made a gesture of
farewell and Ortiz seemed to smile as he went back to hold the
entrance for a little longer.

"We're going," said Bell grimly. "Get your guns ready, Jamison, for
when the door goes up."

He pressed on the button Ortiz had pointed out. There were more
explosions and the rattle of firearms from the front of the warehouse.
There was a sudden rumble of machinery and the blank front of the
little covered dock rose suddenly. The sunlit waters of Buenos Aires
harbor spread out before them. To Bell, who had not looked on sunlight
that day, the effect was dazzling. He blinked, and then saw a fast
little launch approaching. There were uniformed figures crowded about
its bows.

"All set!" he snapped. "I'm going to give her the gun."

"Go to it," said Jamison. "We're--"

The motors bellowed and drowned out the rest. The plane shuddered and
began to move. The sound of explosions from the back of the warehouse
was loud and continuous, now. Out into the bright sunlight the plane
moved, at first heavily, then swiftly....

Bell saw arms waving wildly in the launch with the uniformed men.
Sunlight glittered suddenly on rifle barrels. Puffs of vapor shot out.
Something spat through the wall beside Bell. But the roaring of the
motors kept up, and the pounding of the waves against the curved bow
of the boat-body grew more and more violent.... Sweat came out on
Bell's face. The ship was not lifting....

       *       *       *       *       *

But it did lift. Slowly, very slowly, carrying every pound with which
it could have risen from the water. It swept past the police launch at
ninety miles an hour, but no more than five feet above the waves. A
big, clumsy tramp flying the Norwegian flag splashed up river with its
propeller half out of water. Bell dared to rise a little so he could
bank and dodge it. He could not rise above it.

He had one glimpse of blonde, astonished beards staring over the stern
of the tramp as he swept by it, his wing tips level with its rail and
barely twenty feet away. And then he went on and on, out to sea.

He began to spiral for height fully four miles offshore, and looked
back at the sprawling city. Down by the waterfront a thick, curling
mass of smoke was rising from one spot abutting on the water. It
swayed aside and Bell saw the rectangular opening out of which the
plane had come.

"Ortiz's in there," he said, sick at heart. "Dying as he planned."

But there was a sudden upheaval of timbers and roof. A colossal burst
of smoke. A long time later the concussion of a vast explosion. There
was nothing left where the warehouse had been.

Bell looked, and swore softly to himself, and felt a fresh surge of
the hatred he bore to The Master and all his works. And then filmy
clouds loomed up but a little above the rising plane, and Bell shot
into them and straightened out for the south.

       *       *       *       *       *

For many long hours the plane floated on to southward, high above a
gray ocean which seemed deceptively placid beneath a canopy of thin
clouds. The motors roared steadily in the main, though once Bell
instructed Jamison briefly in the maintenance of a proper course and
height, and swung out into the terrific blast of air that swept past
the wings. He clung to struts and handholds and made his way out on
the catwalk to make some fine adjustment in one motor, with six
thousand feet of empty space below the swaying wing.

"Carburetter wrong," he explained when he had closed the cabin window
behind him again and the motors' roar was once more dulled. "It was
likely to make a lot of carbon in the cylinders. O.K., now."

Paula's hand touched his shyly. He smiled abstractedly at her and went
back to the controls.

And then the plane kept on steadily. Time and space have become purely
relative in these days, in startling verification of Mr. Einstein, and
the distance between Buenos Aires and Magellan Strait is great or
small, a perilous journey or a mere day's travel, according to the
mind and the transportation facilities of the voyager. Before four
o'clock in the afternoon the coast was low and sandy to the westward,
and it continued sterile and bare for long hours while the plane hung
high against the sky with a following wind driving it on vastly more
swiftly than its own engines could have contrived.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was little before sunset when the character of the shore changed
yet again, and the sun was low behind a bank of angry clouds when the
stubby forefinger of rock that Magellan optimistically named the Cape
of the Eleven Thousand Virgins reached upward from the seemingly
placid water. Bell swept lower, then, much lower, looking for a
landing place. He found it eight or nine miles farther on, on a wide
sandy beach some three miles from a lighthouse. The little plane
splashed down into tumbling sea and, half supported by the waves and
half by the lift remaining to its wings, ran for yards up upon the
hard packed sand.

The landing had been made at late twilight, and Bell moved stiffly
when he rose from the pilot's seat.

"I'm going over to that lighthouse," he said curtly. "There won't be
enough men there to be dangerous and they probably haven't frequent
communication with the town. I'll learn something, anyway. You two
stay with the plane."

Jamison lifted his eyebrows and was about to speak, but looked at
Bell's expression and stopped. Leadership is everywhere a matter of
emotion and brains together, and though Jamison had his share of
brains, he had not Bell's corroding, withering passion of hatred
against The Master and all who served him gladly. All the way down the
coast Bell had been remembering things he had seen of The Master's
doing. His power was solely that of fear, and the deputies of his
selection had necessarily been men who would spread that terror with
an unholy zest. The nature of his hold upon his subjects was such that
no honorable man would ever serve him willingly, and for deputies he
had need of men even of enthusiasm. His deputies, then, were men who
found in the assigned authority of The Master full scope for the
satisfaction of their own passions. And Bell had seen what those
passions brought about, and there was a dull flame of hatred burning
in his eyes that would never quite leave them until those men were
powerless and The Master dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

"You'll look after the ship and Paula," said Bell impatiently. "All
right?"

Jamison nodded. Paula looked appealingly at Bell, but he had become a
man with an obsession. Perhaps the death of Ortiz had cemented it, but
certainly he was unable to think of anything, now, but the necessity
of smashing the ghastly hold of The Master upon all the folk he had
entrapped. Subconsciously, perhaps, Bell saw in the triumph of The
Master a blow to all civilization. Less vaguely, he foresaw an attempt
at the extension of The Master's rule to his own nation. But when Bell
thought of The Master, mainly he remembered certain disconnected
incidents. The girl at Ribiera's luxurious _fazenda_ outside of Rio,
who had been ordered to persuade him to be her lover, on penalty of a
horrible madness for her infant son if she failed. Of a pale and
stricken _fazendiero_ on the Rio LaurenÃ§o who thought him a deputy and
humbly implored the grace of The Master for a moody twelve year old
girl. Of a young man who kept his father, murder mad, in a barred room
in his house and waited despairingly for that madness to be meted out
upon himself and on his wife and children. Of a white man who had been
kept in a cage in Cuyaba, with other men....

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell trudged on through the deepening night with his soul a burning
flame of hatred. He clambered amid boulders, guided by the tall
lighthouse of Cape Possession with the little white dwelling he had
seen at its base before nightfall. He fell, and rose, and forced his
way on and upward, and at last was knocking heavily at a trim and
neatly painted door.

He was so absorbed in his rage that his talk with the lighthouse
keeper seemed vague in his memory, afterward. The keeper was a wizened
little Welshman from the Chibut who spoke English with an
extraordinary mixture of a Spanish intonation and a Cimbrian accent.
Bell listened heavily and spoke more heavily still. At the end he went
back to the plane with a spindle-shanked boy with a lantern
accompanying him.

"All settled," he said grimly, when Jamison came out into the darkness
with a ready revolver to investigate the approaching light. "We get a
boat from the lighthouse keeper to go to Punta Arenas in. He's a
devout member of some peculiar sect, and he's seen enough of the hell
Punta Arenas amounts to, to believe what I told him of its cause. His
wife will look after Paula, and this boy will hitch a team to the
plane and haul it out of sight early in the morning. With the help of
God, we'll kill Ribiera and The Master before sunset to-morrow."


CHAPTER XVI

But they did not kill The Master before nightfall. It was not quite
practicable. Bell and Jamison started out well before dawn with a
favorable wind and tide, in the small launch the wizened Welshman
placed at their disposal. His air was one of dour piety, but he
accepted Bell's offer of money with an obvious relief, and criticized
his Paraguayan currency with an acid frankness until Jamison produced
Argentine pesos sufficient to pay for the boat three times over.

"I think," said Jamison dryly, "that Pau--that Miss Canalejas is safe
enough until we come back. The keeper is a godly man and knows we
have money. She'll be in no danger, except of her soul. They may try
to save that."

Bell did not answer. He could think of nothing but the mission he had
set himself. He tinkered with the engine to make it speed up, and set
the sails with infinite care to take every possible advantage of the
stiff breeze that blew. During the day, those sails proved almost as
much of a nuisance as a help. The fiendish, sullen williwaws that blow
furiously and without warning about the Strait required watching, and
more than once it was necessary to reef everything and depend on the
motor alone.

Bell watched the horizon ahead with smouldering eyes. Jamison watched
him almost worriedly.

"Look here, Bell," he said at last, "you'll get nowhere feeling like
you do. I know you've done The Master more damage than I have, but
you'll just run your head into a trap unless you use your brains. For
instance, you didn't ask about communications. There's a direct
telegraph wire from Cape Virgins to Buenos Aires, and there's
telephonic communication between the Cape and Punta Arenas. Do you
imagine that the plane wasn't seen when it came in the Cape? And do
you imagine The Master doesn't know we're here?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell turned, then, and frowned blackly.

"I hadn't thought of it," he said grimly, "but I put some hand
grenades in the locker, there."

"You damned fool!" said Jamison angrily. "Stop being bloodthirsty and
use your head! You haven't even asked what I've done! I've done
something, anyhow. That bundle I chucked in the bow has a couple of
sheepmen's outfits in it. Lots of sheep raised around here. We'll put
'em on before we land. And like a good general, I arranged a method of
retreat before we left B. A. There'll be a naval vessel here in two or
three days. She's carrying a party of Government scientists. She'll
anchor in Punta Arenas harbor and announce a case of some infectious
disease on board. No shore leave, you see, and nobody from shore
permitted on board her. And she has one or two damned good analytical
chemists with a damned good laboratory on board her, too. It's a long
gamble, but if we can get hold of some of The Master's poison.... Do
you see?"

"Yes," said Bell heavily. "I see. But you haven't been through what
I've been through. What I've done, fighting that devil, has caused men
to be deserted after being enslaved. There's one place, Cuyaba...."

His face twitched. That place was in his dreams, now. That place and
others where human beings had watched their bodies go mad, and had
been carried about screaming with horror at the crimes those bodies
committed....

"I'm going to kill The Master," he rasped. "That's all."

He settled down to his grim watch for the city. All during the cloudy,
overcast day he strained his eyes ahead. Jamison could make nothing of
him. In the end he had to leave Bell to his moody waiting.

       *       *       *       *       *

The morning passed, and midday, and a long afternoon. Three times Bell
came restlessly back to the engine and tried to coax more speed out of
it. But when darkness fell the town was still not in sight. They kept
on, then, steering by the stars with the motor putt-putt-putting
sturdily away in the stern. The water splashed and washed all about
them. The little boat rose, and fell, and rose and fell again.

"That's the town," said Bell grimly.

It was eleven at night, or later. Lights began to appear, very far
away, dancing miragelike on the edge of the water. They grew nearer
with almost infinite slowness. Two wide bands of many lights, with a
darker space in which a few much brighter lights showed clearly.
Presently a single red light appeared, the Punta Arenas harbor light,
twenty-five feet up on an iron pole. They passed it.

"Bell," said Jamison curtly, "it's time you showed some sense, now.
We're going to find out some things before we get reckless. This town
isn't a big one, but it always was a hell on earth. No extradition
from here. It's full of wanted men. It's dying, now, from the old days
when all ships passed the Straits before the Panama Canal opened up,
but it ought to be still a hell on earth. And we're going to put on
these sheepmen outfits, and put up at some low caste sailors' and
sheepmen's hotel on shore, and find out what is what. In the morning,
if you like--"

"In the morning," said Bell coldly, "I'm going to settle with The
Master."

       *       *       *       *       *

They found a small and filthy hotel, in a still filthier street where
the houses were alternately black and silent and empty, and filled
with the squalid hilarity most seaport towns can somehow manage to
support. The street lamps were white and cold. The dirt and squalor
showed the more plainly by their light. There were sailors from the
few ships in harbor, and women so haggard and bedraggled that shrill
laughter and lavish endearments remained their only allure. And Bell
and Jamison plodded to the reeking place in which a half-drunk
sheepman pointed, and there Bell sat grimly in the vermin infested
room while Jamison, swearing wryly, went out.

He came back later, much later. His breath was strong of bad whiskey
and he looked like a man who feels that a bath would be very
desirable. He looked like a man who feels unclean.

"Give me a cigarette," he said shortly. "I found out most of what we
want to know."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell gave him a cigarette and waited.

"Good thing you stayed behind," said Jamison. "I want to vomit. Why
people go in hell holes for fun.... But I was very drunk and very
amorous. Picked up a woman and fed her liquor. Young, too. Damnation!
She got crying drunk and told me everything she knew. I gave her money
and left. Punta Arenas is The Master's, body and soul."

"One could have guessed it," said Bell grimly.

"Nothing like it is," said Jamison. "Every living creature, man,
woman, and child, has been fed that devilish poison of his. The
keepers of the dives go fawning to the local officials for the
antidote. The _jefe politico_ is driven in his carriage to be cured
when red spots form before his eyes. The damned place is full of
suicides, and women, and--oh, my God! It's horrible!"

A humming, buzzing noise set up off in the night somewhere. It kept up
for a long time, throttled down. Suddenly it seemed to grow louder,
changed in pitch, and dwindled as if into the far, far distance.

"That's one of The Master's planes now, no doubt," said Jamison
savagely, "going off on some errand for him. He uses this place
practically as an experiment station. The human beings here are his
guinea pigs. The deputies get a standardized form of the stuff, but
he's got it worked out in different doses so he can make a man go mad
in hours, if he chooses, instead of after a delay. I don't know how.
And The Master--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He checked himself sharply. There were shuffling footsteps in the hall
outside. A timid tap on the door. Jamison opened it, while Bell
dropped one hand inconspicuously to a weapon inside his shapeless
clothing.

The toothless and filthy old man who kept the hotel beamed in at them.

"_Senores_," he cackled. "_Vdes son de Porvenir, no es verdad?_"

Jamison hiccoughed, as one who has been out and been drunken ought to
do.

"_No, viejo_," he rumbled tipsily, "_somos de la estancia del SeÃ±or
Rubio. Vaya._"

The old man seemed to mourn that they did not come from the sheep
ranches about Porvenir Bay. But he produced a bottle with a shaking
hand, still beaming.

"_Tengo muchos amigos en Porvenir_," he chirped amiably. "_Y questa
botella--_"

"_DÃ©mela_," rumbled Jamison. He reached out his hand.

"_No mas que poquito!_" said the old man, beaming but anxious as
Jamison tilted it to his lips. "_Es visky de gentes...._"

He beamed upon Bell, and Bell swallowed a spoonful and seemed to
swallow vastly more. He lay back lazily while Jamison in the part of a
tipsy sheepherder bullied the old man amiably and eventually chased
him out.

"You're amused?" asked Jamison sardonically, when there were no more
sounds outside. "Because I said you didn't want to meet the young
senorita who loved you when she saw you downstairs? Well, Bell, if you
used your brain you didn't swallow any of that stuff."

Bell started up. Jamison caught him by the shoulder.

"I'm not sure," he said sharply. "Of course not. But it's damned funny
for a Spanish hotel keeper to give something for nothing, even when he
seemed just to want to gossip about his friends. Here. Drink this
water. It looks vile enough to take the place of mustard...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning the hotel keeper beamed upon them both as they went out
of the place. A slatternly, dark haired girl who leaned on his
shoulder smiled invitingly at Bell. And Bell, in his character of a
loutish sheepman from one of the ranches that dot the shores of the
Strait, grinned awkwardly back. But he went on with Jamison.

"We separate," said Jamison under his breath. "We want to find where
The Master lives, mostly, and then we want to find the laboratory
where his stuff is mixed. We don't want to do any killing until that's
settled. After all, the Trade has something to say!"

Bell codded indifferently and began to wander idly about the streets,
turning here and there as if moved by nothing more than the vaguest
curiosity. But gradually he was working through the sections in which
the larger buildings stood. Concrete structures, astonishingly modern,
dotted the business section. But none of them had the air that would
surround a place where a man with power of life or death would be. In
a town the size of Punta Arenas there would be unmistakable evidences
about The Master's residence, even if it were only that those who
passed it did so hurriedly and with a twinge of fear.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were prosperous men in plenty on the streets, mingled with
deserting sailors, stockmen and farmers from the villages along the
Strait, and even a few grimy men who looked like miners. But there is
a lignite mine not far from the city, and a narrow gauge railroad
running to it. Of the prosperous-seeming men, however, Bell picked out
one here and there toward whom all passersby adopted a manner of
cringing respect. Bell lounged against a pole and studied them
thoughtfully. Men with an air of amused and careless scorn which only
men with unlimited power may adopt. He saw one grossly fat man with
hard and cruel eyes. The uniformed policemen drove all traffic
abjectly out of the way of his carriage, and stood with lifted hat
until he had passed. The fat man gave no faintest sign of
acknowledgment.

"I wonder," said Bell slowly, and very grimly, "if that's The Master?"

And then a passerby dodged quickly past his shoulder, brushing against
him, and waited humbly in the street. Bell turned. A party of men were
taking up nearly all the sidewalk. There were half a dozen of them in
all. And nearly in the middle was the bulky, immaculate, pigmented
Ribiera.

Bell stiffened. But to move, beyond clearing the way, would be to
attract attention. He backed clumsily off the curbing as if making
way....

And Ribiera looked at his face.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell's hand drifted near his hidden weapon. But Ribiera looked neither
surprised nor alarmed. He halted and chuckled.

"Ah, the Senhor Bell!"

Bell said nothing, looking as stupid as possible, merely because there
was nothing else to do.

"Ah, do not deny my acquaintance!" said Ribiera. He laughed. "I advise
you to go and look at the view, over the harbor. Good day, Senhor
Bell."

Laughing, he went off along the street. And Bell felt a cold horror
creeping over him as he realized what Ribiera might mean. Ribiera had
entirely too much against him to greet him only, in a town where even
the dogs dared not bark without The Master's express command. He had
guards with him, men who would have shot Bell down at a nod from
Ribiera.

Bell burst into a mad run for the waterfront. When the bay spread out
before his eyes he saw what Ribiera meant, and something seemed to
snap in his brain.

The plane in which he and Jamison and Paula had escaped in was
floating out in the harbor. It was unmistakable. A larger, bulkier
seaplane floated beside it. The buzzing in the air the night
before.... The arrival of the plane had been telephoned from Cape
Virgins. Through a glass, perhaps, even its alighting had been
watched. And a big seaplane had gone out to bring it back. Footprints
in the sand would lead toward the lighthouse. There would be plenty of
men to storm that, if necessary, to take the three fugitives. But they
would have found only Paula. It was quite possible that the plane had
only been sent for after Bell and Jamison had been seen to land in
Punta Arenas. And Paula in The Master's hands would explain Ribiera's
amusement perfectly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell found Jamison looking unhurriedly for him. And Jamison glanced at
his utterly white face and said softly:

"We want to get where we can't be seen, to talk. There's the devil to
pay."

"No use hiding," said Bell. His lips seemed stiff. "Paula--"

"Hide anyway," snapped Jamison. He fairly thrust Bell into an alleyway
between two houses and thrust two rounded objects beneath his loose
fitting coat. "Two grenades. I have two more. The boat we came in is
taken--"

"So is the plane," said Bell emotionlessly.

"And there is a sign, in English, posted where we tied it up. The sign
says, '_The Senores Bell and Jamison may recover their boat on
application to The Master, and may also receive news of a late
traveling companion from him._"

"We're known," Bell told him--and amazingly found it possible to smile
faintly--"Ribiera met me on the street and spoke to me and laughed and
went on."

Jamison stared. Bell's manner was almost entirely normal again. Then
Jamison shrugged.

"The sense of what you're saying," he observed wryly, "is that we're
licked. Let us, then, go to see The Master. I confess I feel some
curiosity to know just what he's like."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell was smiling. Being in an entirely abnormal state, he had a
curious certitude of the proper course to adopt. He went up to a
policeman and said politely, in Spanish:

"I am desired to report to The Master, himself. Will you direct me?"

The policeman abased himself instantly and trotted with them as a
guide. And Bell walked naturally, now, with his head up and his
shoulders back, and smoked leisurely as he went, and the policeman's
abasement became abject. All who walked with that air of amused
superiority in Punta Arenas were high in the service of The Master.
Obviously, the two men in these dejected clothes must also be high in
the service of The Master, and had adopted their disguise for purposes
into which a mere policeman and a slave of The Master should not dare
enquire.

Jamison was rather grim and still. Jamison thought he was walking to
his death. But Bell smiled peculiarly and talked almost gaily and--as
Jamison thought--almost irrationally.

       *       *       *       *       *

They came to a house set in a fairly spacious lawn behind a rather
high wall. There were greenhouses behind it, and there were flowers
growing as well as any flowers can be expected to grow in such high
altitudes. It was an extraordinarily cheerful dwelling to be found in
Punta Arenas, but the shuddering fear with which the little policeman
removed his hat as he entered the gateway was instructive.

They were confronted by four other policemen, on guard inside the
gate.

"_Estos SeÃ±ores_--" began the abject one.

"Take us to The Master," commanded Bell in a species of amused and
superior scorn.

"It is required, Senor," said the leader of the four on guard, very
respectfully, "it is required that none enter without being searched
for weapons."

Bell laughed.

"Does The Master manage things so?" he asked scornfully. "Now, where I
am deputy no man would dare to think of a weapon to be used against
me! If it is The Master's rule, though...."

The policeman cringed. Bell scornfully thrust an automatic out.

"Take it," he snapped. "And go and tell The Master that the Senores
Bell and Jamison await his pleasure, and that they have given up
their weapons."

The policeman scuttled toward the house. Bell smiled at his cigarette.

"Do you know, Bell," said Jamison dryly, in English, "I'd hate to play
poker with you."

"I'm not bluffing," said Bell. "Not altogether. I've a four card
flush, with the draw to come."

       *       *       *       *       *

Almost instantly the policeman returned, more abject still. He had
stammered out Bell's message, just as it was given him. And the slaves
of The Master did not usually disobey orders, especially orders
designed to prevent any danger of a doomed man or woman trying to
assassinate The Master before madness was complete. Bell and Jamison
were received by liveried servants in utter silence and conducted
through a long passageway, too long to have been contained entirely in
the house as seen from the front. Indeed, they came out into a great
open greenhouse, in which the smell of flowers was heavy. There were
flowers everywhere, and a benign, small old man with a snowy beard and
hair, sat at a desk as if chatting of amiable trivialities with the
frock-coated men who stood about him. The white haired old man lifted
a blossom delicately to his nostrils and inhaled its perfume with a
sensitive delight. He looked up and smiled benignly upon the two.

It was then that Jamison got a shock surpassing all the rest. Bell's
hands were writhing at the ends of his wrists, writhing as if they
were utterly beyond his control and as if they were longing to rend
and tear....

And Bell suddenly looked down at them, and his expression was that of
a man who sees cobras at the ends of his arms.


CHAPTER XVII

There was a long pause. Bell was very calm. He seemed to tear his eyes
from the writhing hands that were peculiarly sensate, as if under the
control of in intelligence alien to his own.

"I believe," said Bell steadily, "that The Master wishes to speak to
me."

With an apparent tremendous effort of will, he thrust his hands into
his pockets. Jamison cursed softly. Bell had taken the direction of
things entirely out of his hands. It only remained to play up.

"To be sure," said a mild, benevolent voice. The man with the snowy
beard regarded Bell exactly in the fashion of an elderly
philanthropist. "I am The Master, Senor Bell. You have interested me
greatly. I have grown to have a great admiration for you. Will you be
seated? Your companion also pleases me. I would like"--and the mild
brown eyes beamed at him--"I would like to have your friendship, Senor
Bell."

"Pull out a chair for me, Jamison," said Bell in a strained voice.
"And--I'd like to have a cigarette."

Jamison, cursing under his breath, put a chair behind Bell and stuck a
cigarette between his lips. He held a match, though his hands shook.

"You might sit down, too," said Bell steadily. "From the manner of The
Master, I imagine that the conversation will take some time."

       *       *       *       *       *

He inhaled deeply of his cigarette, and faced the little man again.
And The Master looked so benevolent that he seemed absolutely
cherubic, and there was absolutely no sign of anything but the utmost
saintliness about him. His eyes were clear and mild. His complexion
was fresh and translucent. The wrinkles that showed upon his face were
those of an amiable and a serene soul filled with benevolence and
charity. He looked like one of those irritatingly optimistic old
gentlemen who habitually carry small coins and stray bits of candy in
their pockets for such small children as they may converse with under
the smiling eyes of nurses.

"Ah, Senor Bell," he said gently. "You do cause me to admire you. May
I see your hands again?"

Bell held them out. He seemed to have conquered their writhing to some
extent. But he could not hold them quite still. Sweat stood out on his
forehead. He thrust them abruptly out of sight again.

"Sad," said The Master gently. "Very sad." He sighed faintly and laid
down the rose he had been toying with. His fingers caressed the soft
petals delicately. "Fortunately," he said benevolently, "it is not yet
too late for me to relieve the strain under which you labor, Senor.
May I send for a certain medicine which will dispose of those symptoms
in a very short time?"

"We'll talk first," said Bell harshly. "I want to hear what you have
to say."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Master nodded, his fingers touching the rose petals as if in a
sensitive pleasure in their texture.

"Always courageous," he said benignly. "I admire it while I combat it.
But the Senor Jamison...."

Jamison had been looking fascinatedly at his own hands, opening and
closing the fingers with a savage abruptness. They obeyed him, though
they trembled.

"I didn't drink the damned stuff that hotel keeper brought us last
night," he growled. "Bell did. And I--"

"Wait a minute, Jamison," said Bell evenly. "Let's talk to The Master
for a while. I swore, sir," he said grimly, "that I'd kill you. I've
seen what your devilish poison does, in the hands of the men you've
chosen to distribute it. I've seen"--he swallowed and said
harshly--"I've seen enough to make me desire nothing so much as to see
you roast in hell! But you wanted to talk to me. Go ahead!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The Master beamed at him, and then glanced about at the frock-coated
men who had been attending him. Bell glanced at them. Ribiera was
there, chuckling.

"I told you, _tio mio_," he said familiarly, "that he would not be
polite. You can do nothing with him. Better have him shot."

Francia, of Paraguay, nodded amusedly to Bell as their eyes met. But
The Master shook his really rather beautiful head. An old man can be
good to look at, and with a saintly aureole of snow-white hair and the
patriarchal white beard, The Master was the picture of benign and
beautiful old age.

"Ah, you do not understand," he protested mildly. "The more the Senor
Bell shows his courage, _hijo mio_, the more we must persuade him." He
turned to Bell. "I realise," he said gently, "that there are hardships
connected with the administration of my power, Senor. It is
inevitable. But the Latin races of the continent which is now nearly
mine require strong handling. They require a strong man to lead them.
They are comfortable only under despotism. The task I have chosen for
you is different, entirely. _Los Americanos del Norte_ will not
respond to the treatment which is necessary for those _del Sud_. Their
governments, their traditions, are entirely unlike. If you become my
deputy and viceroy for all your nation, you shall rule as you will. A
benevolent, yet strong, rule is needed for your people. It may even
be--I will permit it--that the democratic institutions of your nation
may continue if you so desire. I am offering you, Senor, the position
of the absolute ruler of your nation. You may interfere with the
present government not at all, if you choose, provided only that my
own commands are obeyed when relayed through you. I choose you because
you have courage, and resource, and because you have the _Yanqui_
cleverness which will understand your nation and cope with it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell inhaled deeply.

"In other words," he said bitterly, "you're saying indirectly that you
offer me a chance to be the sort of ruler Americans will submit to
without too much fuss, because you think one of Ribiera's stamp would
drive them to rebellion."

The fine dark eyes twinkled.

"You have much virtue, Senor. My nephew--though he is to be my
successor--has a weakness for a pretty face. Would you prefer that I
give him the task of subduing your nation?"

"You might try it," said Bell. His eyes gleamed. "He'd be dead within
a week."

The Master laughed softly.

"I like you, Senor. I do like you indeed. I have not been so defied
since another _Americano del Norte_ defied me in this same room. But
he had not your resource. He had been enslaved with much less
difficulty than yourself. I do not remember what happened to him...."

"He was taken, Master," said a fat man with hard eyes, obsequiously,
"he was taken in Bolivia." It was the man whom Bell had seen earlier
that morning in a carriage. "You gave him to me. He had insulted me
when I ordered him sent to you. I had him killed, but he was very
obstinate."

"Ah, yes," said The Master meditatively. "You told me the details." He
seemed to recall small facts in benevolent retrospection. "But you,
Senor Bell, I have need of you. In fact, I shall insist upon your
friendship. And therefore--"

He beamed upon Bell.

"I give you back the Senorita Canalejas."

       *       *       *       *       *

He shook his head reproachfully at the utterly grim look in Bell's
eyes.

"I shall give you one single portion of the antidote to the medicine
which makes your hands behave so badly. You may take it when you
please. The Senor Jamison I shall keep and enslave. I do not think he
will be as obstinate as you are, but he has excellent qualities. If
you prove obdurate, I may yet persuade him to undertake certain tasks
for me. But you and the Senorita Canalejas are free. Your boat has
been reprovisioned and provided with fuel. You may go from here where
you will."

Ribiera snarled.

"_Tio mio_," he protested angrily, "you promised me--"

"Your will in many things," said The Master gently, "but not in all.
Remember that you have much to learn, _hijo mio_. I have taught you to
prepare my little medicine, it is true. That is so you can take my
place if age infirmity shall carry me away." The Master folded his
hands with an air of pious resignation. "But you must learn policy.
The Senorita Canalejas belongs to the Senor Bell."

Jamison was staring, now, but Bell's eyes had narrowed to mere slits.

"You see," said The Master gently, to him, "I desire your friendship.
You may go where you will. You may take the Senorita Canalejas with
you. You will have enough of the antidote to my little medicine to
keep you sane for perhaps a week. In one week you may go far, with
her. You may do many things. But you cannot find a place of safety for
her. I still have a little power, Senor. If you take her with you,
your hands will writhe again. Your body will become uncontrollable.
Your eyes, staring and horror-struck, will observe your own hands
rending her. While your brain is yet sane you will see this body of
yours which now desires her so ardently, tearing at and crushing that
delicate figure, gouging out her eyes, battering her tender flesh,
destroying her.... Have you ever seen what a man who has taken my
little medicine does to a human being at his mercy?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The figures about The Master were peculiarly tense. The fat man with
the hard eyes laughed suddenly. It was a horrible laugh. Francia of
Paraguay took out his handkerchief and delicately wiped his lips. He
was smiling. Ribiera looked at Bell's face and chuckled. His whole
gross figure shook with his amusement.

"And of course," said The Master benignly, "if you prefer to commit
suicide, if you prefer to leave her here--well, my nephew knows little
expedients to reduce her will to compliance. You recall _YaguÃ©_, among
others."

Bell's face was a white mask of horror and fury. He tried to speak,
and failed. He raised his hand to his throat--and it tore at the
flesh, insanely.

"Let--let me see her," croaked Bell, as if strangling.

Jamison stiffened. Bell seemed to be trying to get his hands into his
pockets. They were apparently uncontrollable. He thrust them under his
coat as there was a stirring at the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

And Paula was brought in, as if she had been waiting. She was entirely
colorless, but she smiled at Bell. She came quickly to his side.

"I heard," she said in a clear and even little voice. "We will go
together, Charles. If there is a week in which we can be together, it
will be so much of happiness. And when you are--The Master's victim,
we will let the little boat sink, and sink with it. I do not wish to
live without you, Charles, and you do not wish to live as his slave."

Bell gave utterance to a sudden laugh that was like a bark. His hands
came out from under his coat. Dangling from each one was a small,
pear-shaped globule of metal. A staff projected upward from each one,
and he held those staffs in his writhing hands. About each wrist was a
tiny loop of cord that went down to a pin at the base of the staffs.

"Close to me, Paula," he said coldly. She clung to his arm. He moved
forward, with half-a-dozen revolver muzzles pointed at his breast.

"If one of you damned fools fires," he said harshly, "I'll let go.
When I let go--these are Mills grenades, and they go off in three
seconds after they leave the hand. Stand still!"

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a terrible, frozen silence. Then a movement from behind
Bell. Jamison was rising with a grunt.

"Some day, Bell," he observed coolly, "I'll be on to all of your
curves. This is the best one yet. But you're likely to let go at any
second, aren't you?"

"Like hell!" raged Bell. "I drank some of your poison," he snarled at
The Master. "Yes! I was fool enough to do it! But I took what measures
any man will take who finds he's swallowed poison. I got it out of my
stomach at once. And if you or one of these deputies tries to
move...."

Ribiera had blanched to a pasty gray. The Master was frozen. But Bell
saw Ribiera's eyes move in swift calculation. There was a solid wall
behind The Master. It seemed as if the greenhouse were a sort of
passageway between two larger structures. And there was a door almost
immediately behind Ribiera. Ribiera glanced right--left--

He flung himself through that door. He knew the secret of The Master's
power. He was The Master's appointed successor. If The Master and all
his deputies died, Ribiera....

But Bell snapped into action like a bent spring released. His arm shot
forward. A grenade went hurtling through the door through which
Ribiera had fled. There was an instantaneous, terrific explosion. The
solid wall shook and shivered and, with a vast deliberation,
collapsed. The greenhouse was full of crushed plaster dust. Panes of
glass shivered....

But Bell was upon The Master. He had struck the little man down and
stood over him, his remaining automatic replacing the grenade he had
thrown.

"Ribiera's dead," he snapped, "and if I'm shot The Master dies too and
you all go mad! Stand back!"

The deputies stood frozen.

"I think," said Jamison composedly, "I take a hand now. I'll pick him
up, Bell.... Right. I've got him. With a grenade hanging down his
back. If he jerks away from me, or I from him, it will blow his spine
to bits."

"Hold him so," said Bell coldly.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went coolly to where he could look over the heap of the collapsed
wall. He saw a bundle of torn clothing that had been a man. It was
flung against a cracked and tottering chimney.

"Right," he said evenly. "Ribiera's dead, all right."

He turned to the deputies, whose revolvers were still in their hands.

"The Master's carriage, please," he said politely. "To the door. You
may accompany us if you please, but in other carriages. I am working
for the release of all the Master's slaves, and you among them if you
choose. But you can see very easily that there is no hope of the
release of The Master without the meeting of my terms."

The Master spoke, softly and mildly and without fear.

"It is my order that the Senor Bell is to be obeyed. I shall return.
You need have no fear of my death. My carriage."

A man went stiffly, half-paralyzed with terror, to where chattering
scared servants were grouped in the awful fear that came upon the
slaves of The Master at any threat to his rule.

But Bell and Paula and Jamison went slowly and cautiously--though they
held the whip hand--to the entrance door of the house, and out to the
entrance gate. A carriage was already before the door when they
reached it, and others were drawing up in a line behind it.

"Get in," said Bell briefly. "Down to the waterfront."

He turned to the group of frock-coated, stricken men who had followed.

"Some of you men," he said coldly, "had better go on ahead and warn
the police and the public generally about the certainty of The
Master's death if any attempt is made to rescue him."

Francia, of Paraguay, summoned a swagger and raised his hand to the
second carriage. It drew in to the curb.

"I will attend to it, Senor Bell," he said politely. "Ah, when I think
that I once raised my revolver to shoot you and refrained!"

He drove off swiftly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell's eyes were glowing. He got into the carriage, and such a
procession drove through the streets of Punta Arenas as has rarely
moved through the streets of any city in the world. The long line of
carriages moved at a funereal pace amid a surging, terrified mob. The
Master beamed placidly as he looked out over white, starkly agonized
faces. Some of the people groaned audibly. A few cursed The Master in
their despair. More cursed Bell, not daring to strike or fire on him.
But he would have been torn to bits if he had stepped from the
carriage for an instant.

"Bell," said Jamison dryly, "considering that I'm prepared to be blown
apart on three seconds notice, it is peculiar that this mob frightens
me."

The Master's eyes twinkled benignly. He seemed totally insensible to
fear.

"You need not be afraid," he said gently. "They will not touch you
unless I order them."

Jamison stared down at the little man whose collar he held firmly,
with a Mills grenade dangling down at the base of his neck.

"I wouldn't order them to attack, if I were you," he said coldly. "I
haven't Bell's brains, but I have just as much dislike for you as he
has."

       *       *       *       *       *

They came to the harbor. Bell spoke again.

"The carriage is to drive out to the end of one of the docks, and no
one else is to go out on that dock."

The Master relayed the order in his mild voice, but as the coachman
obeyed him he clucked his tongue commiseratingly.

"Senor Bell," he protested gently. "You do not expect to escape! Not
after killing me! Why that is absurd!"

Bell said nothing. He alighted from the carriage, his face set grimly,
and stared ashore at the long, long row of terrified faces staring out
at him. The whole waterfront seemed to be lined with staring faces.
Wails came from that mass of enslaved human beings.

"Hold him here, Jamison," he said drearily. "I'm going out to look at
that big plane. There's a rowboat tied to the dock, here."

He swung down the side into the dock and rowed off into the harbor,
while the horses attached to The Master's carriage pawed impatiently
at the wooden flooring of the dock. Bell reached the two planes
anchored on the still harbor water. The smaller one had brought them
down from Buenos Aires. The larger one had gone after the beached
amphibian and brought it and Paula on to the city. Bell, from the
shore, was seen to be investigating the larger one. He came rowing
back.

His head appeared above the dock edge.

"All right," he said tiredly. "The Master has a rule requiring all his
ships ready for instant flight. Very useful. The big plane is fueled
and full of oil. We'll go out to it and take off."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jamison lifted The Master to his feet and with a surge of muscles
swept him down to the flooring of the dock.

"Paula first," said Bell, "and then The Master, and then you,
Jamison."

"One moment," said The Master reproachfully. "It would be cruel not to
let me reassure my subjects. I will give an order."

Bell and Jamison listened suspiciously. But he spoke gently to the
coachman.

"You will tell the deputies," said The Master in Spanish, "that a
month's supply of medicine for all my subjects will be found in my
laboratory. And you may tell them that I shall return before the end
of that time."

The coachman's eyes filled with a passionate relief.

"Now," said The Master placidly, "I am ready for our little jaunt."

Paula descended the ladder and seated herself in the bow of the boat.
Bell covered The Master grimly with his automatic as he descended,
with surprising agility. Jamison came down last, and resumed his
former grip on The Master's collar. Bell rowed out to the big plane.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jamison kept close watch while Bell started the four huge motors and
throttled them down to warming up speed, and while he hauled up the
anchor with which the huge seaplane was anchored.

The dock was covered with a swarm of panic stricken folk. Everywhere,
all the inhabitants of the city who were slaves to The Master had come
in awful terror to watch. And all the inhabitants of the city were
slaves to The Master. Some of them fell to their knees and held out
imploring arms to Bell, begging him for mercy and the return of The
Master. Some cursed wildly.

But, with his jaws set grimly, Bell gave the motors the gun.

The big plane moved heavily, then more swiftly through the water. It
lifted slowly, and rose, and rose, and dwindled to a speck high in the
air.

And all through the streets and ways of Punta Arenas, fear stalked
almost as a tangible thing. Panic hovered over the housetops, always
ready to descend. Terror was in the air that every man breathed, and
every human being looked at every other human being with staring,
haunted eyes. Punta Arenas was waiting for its murder madness to
begin.


CHAPTER XVIII

There were four motors to pull the big plane through the air, and
their roaring was a vast thundering noise which the earth re-echoed.
But inside the cabin that tumult was reduced to a not intolerable
bumming sound.

"What'll I do with this devil, Bell?" asked Jamison. "Now that we're
aloft, I confess this grenade makes me nervous. I'm holding it so
tightly my fingers are getting cramped."

"Tie him up," said Bell, without looking. "He'll talk presently."

Movements. The plane flew on, swaying slightly in the way of big
sea-planes everywhere. A williwaw began in the hills ahead and swept
out and set the ship to reeling crazily in its erratic currents. The
Strait vanished and there were tumbled hills below them. Minutes
passed.

"Got him fixed up," said Jamison coolly, "I'll guarantee he won't
break loose. Got any plans, Bell?"

"No time," said Bell. "I haven't had time to make any. The first thing
is to get where his folk will never find us. Then we'll see what we
can do with him."

Paula looked at the now bound figure of The Master. And the little old
man beamed at her.

"He--he's smiling!" said Paula, in a voice that was full of a peculiar
horrified shock.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell shrugged. Punta Arenas was all of twenty-five miles behind, and
the earth over which they _flew_ began to take on the shape of an
island. Water appeared beyond it, and innumerable small islands. Bell
began to rack his brain for the infinitesimal scraps of knowledge he
had about this section of the world. It was pitifully scanty. Punta
Arenas was the southernmost point of the continental mass. All about
it was an archipelago and a maze of waterways, thinly inhabited
everywhere and largely without any inhabitants at all. The only solid
ground between Cape Horn and the Antarctic ice pack was Diego Ramirez
and the South Shetlands....

Nothing to go on. But any sufficiently isolated and desolate spot
would do. Almost anywhere along the southern edge of the continental
islands should serve.

The plane roared on monotonously, while Bell began to wrestle with
another and more serious problem. In three days--two, now--an American
naval vessel would turn up, with scientists and chemists on board. It
was to be doubted whether anything like an overt act would be risked
by that vessel. If all the governments of South America were under The
Master's thumb, then cabled orders from his deputies would race three
navies to the spot. And the government of the United States does not
like to start war, anywhere. Certainly it would not willingly enter
into a conflict with the whole southern continent for the solution of
a problem that so far affected that continent alone. The Master's
kidnapping had solved nothing, so far.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jamison tapped his shoulder.

"No pursuit, so far," he observed coolly. "I've looked." Bell nodded.

"They don't dare. Not yet, anyhow. They're depending on The Master.
How is he?"

"Smiling peacefully to himself, damn him!" snarled Jamison. "Do you
know what we're up against?"

"Ourselves," said Bell coldly. "But I'm nearly licked. He's got to
talk!"

Jamison moved away again. The earth below looked as if it had been
torn to shreds in some titanic convulsion of ages past. The sea was
everywhere, and so was land! There were little threads of silver
interlacing and crossing and wavering erratically in every conceivable
direction. And there were specks of islands--rocks only yards in
extent--and islands of every imaginable size and shape, with their
surfaces in every possible state of upheaval and distortion. A broader
mass of land appeared ahead and to the left.

"Tierra del Fuego again," muttered Bell. "If we cross it...."

For fifteen minutes the plane thundered across desolate, rocky hills.
Then the maze of islets again. Bell scanned them keenly, and saw a
tiny steamer traveling smokily, for no conceivable reason, among the
scattered bits of stone. The sea appeared, stretching out toward
infinity.

Bell rose, to survey a wider space. He swung to the left, so that he
was heading nearly southeast, and went on down toward that desolation
of desolations, the stormy cape which faces the eternal ice of the
antarctic. He was five thousand feet up, then, and scanning sea and
earth and sky....

And suddenly he swung sharply to the right and headed out toward the
open sea. He felt a small figure pressing against his shoulder.
Presently fingers closed tightly upon his sleeve. He glanced down at
Paula and managed to smile.

"There are some rocks out there," he told her quietly. "Islands, I
think, and Diego Ramirez, at a guess."

       *       *       *       *       *

They were specks, no more, but they were vastly more distinct from the
plane than from Mount Beaufoy. That is on Henderson Island in New Year
Sound, and its seventeen-hundred-foot peak was almost below Bell when
he sighted the islands. But the islands have been seen full fifty
miles from there.

It took the plane nearly forty minutes to cover the space, but long
before that the islands had become distinct. Two tiny groups of
scattered rocks, the whole group hardly five miles in length and by
far the greater number no more than boulders surrounded by sheets of
foam from breakers. Two of them merited the name of islands. The
nearer was high and bare and precipitous. No trace of vegetation
showed upon it. The farther was smaller, and at its northern corner a
little cove showed, nearly land-locked.

Bell descended steeply. The big plane plunged wildly in the air eddies
about the taller island at five hundred feet, but steadied and went
winging on down lower, and lower.... The waves between the two
islands were not high, but the seaplane alighted with a mighty, a
tremendous splashing, and Bell navigated it grimly though clumsily
into the mouth of the cove. There a small beach showed. He went very
slowly toward it. Presently he swung abruptly about. A wing tip float
grounded close to the shore.

The motors cut off and left a thunderous silence. Bell climbed atop
the cabin and let go the anchor.

"We're here," he said shortly. "Bring The Master and we'll go ashore."

       *       *       *       *       *

The catwalk painted on the lower wing guided them. Bell jumped to the
rocks first, and stumbled, and then rose to lift Paula down and take
The Master's small, frail body from Jamison's arms.

"You looked for a gun?" asked Bell

"He'd nothing to fight with," said Jamison heavily. He had been facing
the same problem Bell had worked on desperately, and had found no
answer. But he shuddered a little as he looked about the island.

There was nothing in sight but rock. No moss. No lichens. Not even
stringy grass or the tufty scrub bushes that seemed able to grow
anywhere.

Bell untied The Master, carefully but without solicitude. The little
man sat up, and brushed himself off carefully, and arranged himself in
a comfortable position.

"I am an old man," said The Master in mild reproach. "You might at
least have given me a cushion to sit upon."

Bell sat down and lighted a cigarette with fingers that did not
tremble in the least.

"Suppose," he said hardly, "you talk. First, of what your poison is
made. Second, of what the antidote is made. Third, how we may be sure
you tell the truth."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Master looked at him with bright, shrewd, and apparently kindly
old eyes.

"_Hijo mio_," he said mildly, "I am an old man. But I am obstinate. I
will tell you nothing."

Bell's eyes glowed coldly.

"Does it occur to you," he asked grimly, "that it's too important a
matter for us to have any scruples about? That we can--and will--make
you talk?"

"You may kill me," said The Master benignly, "but that is all."

"And," said Bell, still more grimly, "we have only to get back in the
plane yonder, and go away...."

The Master beamed at him. Presently he began to laugh softly.

"_Hijo mio_," he said gently, "let us stop this little byplay. You
will take me back in my airplane, and you will land me at Punta
Arenas. And then you will fly away. I concede you freedom, but that is
all. You cannot leave me here."

"Paula," said Bell coldly, "get in the plane again. Jamison--"

Paula rose doubtfully. Jamison stood up. The Master continued to
chuckle amiably.

"You see," he said cherubically, "you happen to be a gentleman, Senor
Bell. Every man has some weakness. That is yours. And you will not
leave me here to die, because you have killed my nephew, who was the
only other man who knew how to prepare my little medicine. And you
know, Senor, that all my subjects will wish to die. Those who do, in
fact," he added mildly, "will be fortunate. The effect of my little
medicine does not make for happiness without its antidote."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bell's hands clenched.

"You know," said The Master comfortably, "that there are many
thousands of people whose hands will writhe, very soon. The city of
Punta Arenas will be turned into a snarling place of maniacs within a
very little while--if I do not return. Would you like, Senor, to think
in after days of that pleasant city filled with men and women tearing
each other like beasts? Of little children, even, crouching, and
crushing and rending the tender flesh of other little children? Of
lisping little ones gone--"

"Stop!" snarled Bell, in a frenzy. "Damn your soul! You're right! I
can't! You win--so far!"

"Always," said The Master benevolently. "I win always. And you forget,
Senor. You have seen the worst side of my rule. The revolutions, the
rebellions that have made men free, were they pretty things to watch?
Always, _amigo_, the worst comes. But when my rule is secure, then you
shall see."

       *       *       *       *       *

He waved a soft, beautifully formed hand. From every possible aspect
the situation was a contradiction of all reason. The bare, black, salt
encrusted rocks with no trace of vegetation showing. The gray water
rumbling and surging among the uneven rocks at the base of the shore,
while gulls screamed hoarsely overhead. The white haired little man
with his benevolent face, smiling confidently at the two grim men.

"The time will come," said The Master gently, and in the tone of utter
confidence with which one states an inescapable fact, "the time will
come when all the earth will know my rule. The taking of my little
medicine will be as commonplace a thing as the smoking of tobacco,
which I abhor, Senores. You are mistaken about there being an antidote
and a poison. It is one medicine only. One little compound. A
vegetable substance, Senor Bell, combined with a product of modern
chemistry. It is a synthetic drug. Modern chemistry is a magnificent
science, and my little medicine is its triumph. Even my deputies have
not heard me speak so, Senores."

Bell snarled wordlessly, but if one had noticed his eyes they would
have been seen to be curiously cool and alert and waiting. The Master
leaned forward, and for once spoke seriously, almost reverently.

"There shall be a forward step, Senores, in the race of men. Do you
know the difference between the brain of a man and that of an
anthropoid ape? It consists only of a filmy layer of cortex, a film of
gray nerve cells which the ape has not. And that little layer creates
the difference between ape and man. And I have discovered more. My
little medicine acts upon that film. Administered in the tiny
quantities I have given to my slaves, it has no perceptible effect. It
is merely a compound of a vegetable substance and a synthetic organic
base. It is not excreted from the body. Like lead, it remains always
in solution in the blood. But in or out of the blood it changes,
always, to the substance which causes murder madness. Fresh or
changed, my little medicine acts upon the brain."

       *       *       *       *       *

He smiled brightly upon them.

"But though in tiny quantities it has but little effect, in larger
quantities--when fresh it makes the functioning of the gray cells of
the human brain as far superior to the unmedicated gray cells, as
those human gray cells are to the white cells of the ape! That is what
I have to offer to the human race! Intelligence for every man, which
shall be as the genius of the past!"

He laughed softly.

"Think, Senores! Compare the estate of men with the estate of apes!
Compare the civilization which will arise upon the earth when men's
brains are as far above their present level as the present level is
above the anthropoid! The upward steps of the human race under my rule
will parallel, will surpass the advance from the brutish caveman to
intellectual genius. But I have seen, Senores, the one danger in my
offering."

There was silence. Jamison shook his head despairingly. The Master
could not see him. He formed the word with his lips.

"Crazy!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But Bell said coldly:

"Go on."

"I must rule," said The Master soberly. "It is essential. If my little
secret were known, intelligences would be magnified, but under many
flags and with many aims. Scientists, with genius beside which
Newton's pales, would seek out deadly weapons for war. The world would
destroy itself of its own genius. But under my rule--"

"Men go mad," said Bell coldly.

The Master smiled reproachfully.

"Ah, you are trying to make me angry, so that I will betray something!
You are clever, Senor Bell. With my little medicine, in such
quantities as I would administer it to you...."

"You describe it," said Bell harshly and dogmatically, "as a brain
stimulant. But it drives men mad."

"To be sure," said The Master mildly. "It does. It is not excreted
from the body save very, very slowly. But it changes in the blood
stream. As--let us say--sugar changes into alcohol in digestion. The
end-product of my little medicine is a poison which attacks the brain.
But the slightest bit of unchanged medicine is an antidote. It is"--he
smiled amiably--"it is as if sugar in the body changed to alcohol, and
alcohol was a poison, but sugar--unchanged--was an antidote. That is
it exactly. You see that I have taken my little medicine for years,
and it has not harmed me."

"Which," said Bell--and somehow his manner made utter silence fall so
that each word fell separately into a vast stillness--"which, thank
God, is the one thing that wins finally, for me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He stood up and laughed. Quite a genuine laugh.

"Paula," he said comfortably, "get on the plane. In the cabin. Jamison
and I are going to strip The Master."

Paula stared. The Master looked at him blankly. Jamison frowned
bewilderedly, but stood up grimly to obey.

"But Senor," said The Master in gentle dignity, "merely to humiliate
me--"

"Not for that," said Bell. He laughed again. "But all the time I've
been hearing about the stuff, I've noticed that nobody thought of it
as a drug. It was a poison. People were poisoned. They did not become
addicts. But you--you are the only addict to your drug."

He turned to Jamison, his eyes gleaming.

"Jamison," he said softly, "did you ever know of a drug addict who
could bear to think of ever being without a supply of his drug--_right
on his person_?"

Jamison literally jumped.

"By God! No!"

The Master was quick. He was swarming up the plane-wing tip before
Jamison reached him, and he kicked frenziedly when Jamison plucked him
off. But then it was wholly, entirely, utterly horrible that the
little white haired man, whose face and manner had seemed so cherubic
and so bland, should shriek in so complete a blind panic as they
forced his fingers open and took a fountain pen away from him.

"This is it," said Bell in a deep satisfaction. "This is his point of
weakness."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Master was ghastly to look at, now. Jamison held him gently
enough, considering everything, but The Master looked at that fountain
pen as one might look at Paradise.

"I--I swear," he gasped. "I--swear I will give you the formula!"

"You might lie," said Jamison grimly.

"I swear it!" panted The Master in agony. "It--If the formula is known
it--can be duplicated! It--the excretion can be hastened! It can all
be forced from the body! Simply! So simply! If only you know! I will
tell you how it is done! The medicine is the cacodylate of--"

Bell was leaning forward, now, like a runner breasting the tape at the
end of a long and exhausting race.

"I'll trade," he said softly. "Half the contents of the pen for the
formula. The other half we'll need for analysis. Half the stuff in the
pen for the formula for freeing your slaves!"

The Master sobbed.

"A--a pencil!" he gasped. "I swear--"

Jamison gave him a pencil and a notebook. He wrote, his hinds shaking.
Jamison read inscrutably.

"It doesn't mean anything to me," he said soberly, "but you can read
it. It's legible."

Bell smiled faintly. With steady finger he took his own fountain pen
from his pocket. He emptied it of ink, and put a scrupulous half of a
milky liquid from The Master's pen into it. He passed it over.

"Your medicine," said Bell quietly, "may taste somewhat of ink, but it
will not be poisonous. Now, what do we do with you? I give you your
choice. If we take you with us, you will be held very secretly as a
prisoner until the truth of the information you have given us can be
proven. And if your slaves have all been freed, then I suppose you
will be tried...."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Master was drawn and haggard. He looked very, very old and beaten.

"I--I would prefer," he said dully, "that you did not tell where I am,
and that you go away and leave me here. I--I may have some subjects
who will search for me, and--they may discover me here.... But I am
beaten, Senor. You know that you have won."

Bell swung up on the wing of the plane. He explored about in the
cabin. He came back.

"There are emergency supplies," he said coldly. "We will leave them
with you, with such things as may be useful to allow you to hope as
long as possible. I do not think you will ever be found here."

"I--prefer it, Senor," said The Master dully. "I--I will catch
fish...."

Jamison helped put the packages ashore. The Master shivered. Bell
stripped off his coat and put it on top of the heap of packages. The
Master did not stir. Bell laid a revolver on top of his coat. He went
out to the plane and started the motors. The Master watched
apathetically as the big seaplane pulled clumsily out of the little
cove. The rumble of the engines became a mighty roar. It started
forward with a rush, skimmed the water for two hundred yards or so,
and suddenly lifted clear to go floating away through the air toward
the north.

       *       *       *       *       *

Paula was the only one who looked back.

"He's crying," she said uncomfortably.

"It isn't fear," said Bell quietly. "It's grief at the loss of his
ambition. It may not seem so to you two, but I believe he meant all
that stuff he told me. He was probably really aiming, in his own way,
for an improved world for men to live in."

The plane roared on. Presently Bell said shortly:

"That stuff he has won't last indefinitely. I'm glad I left him that
revolver."

Jamison stirred suddenly. He dug down in his pocket and fished out a
cigar.

"Since I feel that I may live long enough to finish smoking this," he
observed dryly, "I think I'll light it. I haven't felt that I had
twenty minutes of life ahead of me for a long time, now. A sense of
economy made me smoke cigarettes. It wouldn't be so much waste if you
left half a cigarette behind you when you were killed."

       *       *       *       *       *

The tight little cabin began to reek of the tobacco. Paula pressed
close to Bell.

"But--Charles," she asked hopefully, "is--is it really all right,
now?"

"I think so," said Bell, frowning. "Our job's over, anyhow. We go up
the Chilean coast and find that navy boat. We turn our stuff over to
them. They'll take over the task of seeing that every doctor,
everywhere in South America, knows how to get The Master's poison out
of the system of anybody who's affected. Some of them won't be
reached, but most of them will. I looked at his formula. Standard
drugs, all of them. There won't be any trouble getting the news
spread. The Master's slaves will nearly go crazy with joy. And," he
added grimly, "I'm going to see to it that the Rio police take back
what they said about us. I think we'll have enough pull to demand that
much!"

He was silent for a moment or so, thinking.

"I do think, Jamison," he said presently, "we did a pretty good job."

Jamison grunted.

"If--if it's really over," said Paula hopefully, "Charles--"

"What?"

"You--will be able to think about me sometimes," asked Paula
wistfully, "instead of about The Master always?"

Bell stared down at her.

"Good Lord!" he groaned. "I have been a brute, Paula! But I've been
loving you--" He stopped, and then said with the elaborate politeness
and something of the customary idiotic air of a man making such an
announcement. "I say, Jamison, did you know Paula and I were to be
married?"

Jamison snorted. Then he said placidly:

"No. Of course not. I never dreamed of such a thing. When did this
remarkably original idea occur to you?"

He puffed a huge cloud of smoke from his cigar. It was an unusually
vile cigar. Bell scowled at him helplessly for a moment and then said
wrathfully:

"Oh, go to hell!"

And he bent over and kissed Paula.

(_The End._)

[Advertisement: IN THE NEXT ISSUE

JETTA OF THE LOWLANDS
_Beginning an Exciting Three-Part Novel of the Nares Deep_
By Ray Cummings

AN ATTACK FROM SPACE
_A Sequel to "Beyond the Heaviside Layer"_
By Captain S. P. Meek

MAROONED UNDER THE SEA
_A Thrilling Novelet of the Ocean Floor_
By Paul Ernst

EARTH, THE MARAUDER
_The Conclusion of the Tremendous Novel_
By Arthur J. Burks

----_AND OTHERS!_]




The Flying City

_By H. Thompson Rich_

[Illustration: The ray shot down--and squadrons of planes frizzled
like moths in the air.]

[Sidenote: From Space came Cor's disc-city of Vada--its mighty,
age-old engines weakening--its horde of dwarfs hungry for the Earth!]


In the burning solitude of the great Arizona desert, some two miles
south of Ajo, a young scientist was about to perform an experiment
that might have far-reaching results for humanity.

The scientist was Gordon Kendrick--a tall, tanned, robust chap who
looked more like a prospector in search of gold than a professor of
physics from the State University of Tucson.

Indeed, he was in a way, a prospector, since it was gold he
sought--some practical method of tapping the vast radio-energetic
treasure of the sun--and it was an apparatus designed to accomplish
just this that he was about to test.

The primary unit of the mechanism comprised a spheroidal vacuum-tube
measuring a little over a foot across its long axis, mounted in a
steel bracket that held it horizontal with the ground. Down through
its short axis ran a shaft on which was centered a light cross of
aluminum wire, carrying four vanes of mica, one face of each coated
with lampblack. A flexible cable led from the bottom of this shaft to
the base of the bracket, where it was geared to a small electric motor
driven by two dry cells. A rheostat-switch for delivering and
controlling the current was mounted nearby.

[Illustration]

At the wide arc of the egg-shaped tube was a concave platinum cathode,
at the narrow arc a nib of some sort, ending in a socket. From this
socket, two heavy insulated wires extended sixty feet or so across the
sand to the secondary unit of the mechanism, which was roughly a
series of resistance coils, resembling those in an ordinary electric
heater.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Kendrick prepared to test this delicate apparatus that represented
so much of his time and thought, held so much of his hope locked up in
it, a turmoil was in his heart, though his brown face was calm.

If his theories were right, that revolving cross would tap and draw
into its vanes radio-energetic waves of force, much as the whirling
armature of a dynamo draws into its coils electro-magnetic waves of
force. For the blackened sides of the vanes, absorbing more radiation
than the bright sides, would cause the molecules to rebound from the
warmer surfaces with greater velocity, setting up an alternate
pressure and bringing the rays to a focus on the cathode, where they
would be reflected to the nib as waves of _heatricity_, to use the
word he had coined.

Those were Kendrick's theories, and now he moved to put them to the
supreme test. Switching on the current, he set the motor going. In
response, the cross began to revolve, slowly at first--then faster,
faster, as he opened the rheostat wider.

Eyes fixed on his resistance coils, he gave a sudden cry of triumph.
Yes, there was no doubt about it! They were growing red, glowing
brightly, whitely, above the intense desert sunlight.

Here was a means of convening solar radiation into heat, then, that
offered tremendous commercial possibilities!

But even as he exulted, there came a blinding flash--and the overtaxed
coils burst into flame.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shielding his eyes from the glare, he reached for the rheostat, shut
off the current, rushed to his secondary unit--where he beheld an
amazing sight. Not only had this part of the apparatus completely
disintegrated, but the sand of the desert floor under it as well. On
the spot quivered a miniature lake of molten glass!

As Kendrick stood ruefully beside that fiery pool, meditating on the
spectacular but not altogether gratifying results of his experiment, a
peculiar low humming sound reached his ears. Rushing back to his
primary unit, with the thought that perhaps by some chance he had not
fully closed the rheostat, he looked at the cross. But no, the vanes
were still.

The humming increased, however--grew into a vibration that made his
eardrums ache.

Puzzled, he looked around. What on earth could it be? Had his unruly
experiment called into play some tremendous, unsuspected force of the
universe. Was he to bring the world to ruin, as a result of his blind
groping after this new giant of power?

Such predictions had often been made by the ignorant, to be dismissed
by scientists as the veriest nonsense. But was there some truth in the
universal fear, after all? Was he to be the Prometheus who stole fire
from Olympus, the Samson who toppled down the temple?

Chilled, dizzied with the pain of the ever-increasing vibration, he
gritted his teeth, awaiting he knew not what.

Then it came--a spectacle so staggering that he went rigid with awe as
he regarded it, all power of motion utterly numbed for the moment. The
vibration ceased. The thing appeared.

It was a city--a city in the air--a flying city!

       *       *       *       *       *

As Kendrick stood staring at this phenomenon, he could scarcely credit
his senses.

Had the magic carpet of Bagdad suddenly materialized before him, he
would not have been more astounded. And indeed, it was in a way a
magic carpet--a great disclike affair, several miles in diameter, its
myriad towers and spires glinting like gold under the noonday sun,
while its vast shadow fell athwart the desert like the pall of an
eclipse.

The lower portion, he noted, was in the main flat, though a number of
wartish protuberances jutted down from it, ejecting a pale violet
emanation. Whatever this was it seemed to have the effect of holding
the thing motionless in the air, for it hovered there quite easily, a
hundred yards or so above the ground.

But what was it? Where was it from? What had brought it?

Those were the questions he wanted answered; and they were to be,
sooner than he knew.

As he stood there speculating, a device like a trap-door opened in the
base of the disc, and creatures resembling human beings began
descending. Began floating down, rather.

Whereupon Kendrick did what any sensible man would have done, under
similar circumstances. He reacted into motion. In short, he ran.

       *       *       *       *       *

Glancing back over his shoulder after a minute or two, however, he
drew up sheepishly. Of that strange apparition and those who had
descended from it there was not a trace, not a shadow!

But the peculiar humming had recommenced, he realized in the next
breath--and at the same instant he felt himself seized by invisible
hands.

There was a struggle, but it was brief and futile. When it was over
his captors became visible once more. They were singular little beings
about four feet tall, with strange, wise, leathery faces, their heads
grotesquely bald.

The humming had ceased again. The disc, too, was once more visible.

What happened next was something even more astounding, if there could
be any further degrees of wonder possible for the utterly baffled
young scientist. He felt himself lifted up, leaving the desert floor,
whirling away toward that incredible phenomenon hovering there.

Another moment or two and he had been borne up through its trap-door
opening, was standing in a dark space bounded by solid metal walls.
Then he was thrust into a cylinder with several of his tiny guards,
shot swiftly upward.

       *       *       *       *       *

A door opened as they came to rest, and he was led out into a vast
court of gleaming amber crystal. Something like a taxi slid up, with
irridescent planes, and he was bundled into it, whirled away again.

Down broad, gleaming avenues they passed, where similar traffic flowed
densely, but under marvelous control. Towering skyscrapers loomed to
right and left. Tier on tier of upper and lower boulevards revealed
themselves, all crowded with automotive and pedestrian activity.

At length a stupendous concourse was reached. Thousands of these taxis
and similar vehicles were parked along its broad flanks, while literal
swarms of diminutive individuals circulated to and fro.

Assisted from the vehicle that had brought him to this obvious center
of the disc's activities. Kendrick was led into a monumental structure
of jade-green stone that towered a full hundred, stories above the
street level. There he was escorted into another of those
projectilelike elevators, shot up, up--till at length it came to rest.
The door opened and he was led out into a small lobby of the same
amber crystal he had observed before.

By now his guards had diminished to two, but he no longer made any
effort to escape. Wherever this amazing adventure might lead, he was
resolved to follow it through.

One of the guards had advanced to a jewelled door and was pressing a
button. In response, the door opened. A golden-robed, regal creature
stood there.

       *       *       *       *       *

Though dwarfed to four feet, like his fellow, he was obviously their
mental superior to a prodigious degree. Not only was his symmetrical
bald head of large brain content, but the finely-cut features of his
parchment face bore the unmistakable stamp of a powerful intellect.

"_Ao-chaa!_" commanded this evident monarch of the disc, addressing
the guards.

They bowed and departed, abruptly.

"My dear Kendrick!" the regal personage now said, in thin, precise
English. "It is indeed a pleasure to welcome you to my humble
quarters. Pray enter and make yourself comfortable."

Whereupon he ushered him into a dazzling apartment that was one vast
mosaic of precious gems, indicated a richly carved chair, into which
the young scientist dropped wonderingly.

"Now then, Professor," continued the mighty little dwarf, when he was
seated in a chair even more sumptuous, "suppose we have a friendly
little discussion. I have been much interested in your experiments on
heat radiation. What you demonstrated this morning, in particular, was
most absorbing. You have hit upon a rather profound scientific
principle, yes?"

"Possibly," Kendrick admitted, quite conscious that he was being
patronized.

"Oh, don't be modest, my dear fellow!" smiled the dwarf. "I am the
last one to belittle your achievement. Indeed, it is because of it
that I have invited you here to-day. Permit me to introduce myself,
and to make clear one or two possibly perplexing matters. Then I am
sure we shall have a most agreeable chat."

       *       *       *       *       *

His name was Cor, he said, and he was in truth the monarch of this
strange realm. His people had come from the one-time planet of Vada,
far distant in the universe. A thousand years ago, this planet had
been doomed by the approach of an alien star. Their great scientist,
Ravv, had met the emergency by inventing the disc, into whose
construction they had poured all their resources. The pick of their
populace had been salvaged on this giant life-raft. The rest had
perished when that destroying star had crashed down on the doomed
Vada.

Since then these survivors and their descendants had been voyaging
through space on their marvelous disc. For hundreds of years they had
given no thought to the future, content to drift on and on in the
interstellar void, breathing an atmosphere produced artificially. But
at length the inevitable had happened. This superb piece of mechanism
devised by their super-genius, Ravv, was beginning to show signs of
wear. Some of its mighty engines were nearing the exhaustion point.
Either they must soon find a planet comparable with the one they had
once known, where they could pause and rehabilitate their machinery,
or they must disintegrate and pass into oblivion.

Faced with that crisis, Cor had long been seeking such a planet. He
had found it, at last, in the earth--and had resolved that this was
where they were going to alight and transplant the civilization of
ancient Vada, pending such time as they could take to space again.

       *       *       *       *       *

For some months now they had been hovering over various portions of
the earth, studying its geography and its peoples, with the result
that they had concluded the United States offered the most logical
point for launching the attack. Once this country was subdued, they
were in possession of the richest and most advanced section of the
planet. The conquest of the rest of it could await their leisure.

With such an invasion in view, their scientists had mastered the
language of the country. This had been accomplished very easily, since
in addition to their power of mingling with the populace in an
invisible form, they had the principles of radio developed to a high
degree and were able to tune in on any station they wanted.

Kendrick sat there, stunned, as Cor followed his astounding revelation
of their origin with this calm plan for the conquest of America, of
the world. Why, of all people on earth, had he alone been singled out
for this disclosure?

He asked the question now.

"My dear Professor, can't you really guess?" replied Cor, with that
leathery smile. "Hasn't it dawned that you were a little too near our
own field with that machine of yours? A trifle more research, a
slightly different application--and you would have become a dangerous
enemy."

"You--you mean--?"

"I mean there isn't a great deal of difference between the experiments
you have been making and those our great Ravv once made. For instance,
had you broadcast your heatricity, as you call it, instead of trying
to transmit it on wires--well, picture a receiving apparatus in each
home of the land, like your commercial radio sets. You would have
become a billionaire, don't you see?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kendrick saw indeed. It was simple, so simple! Fool--why hadn't he
thought of it?

"But your invention will never make you wealthy now, my dear fellow,"
Cor went on, tauntingly. "You will be our guest, here, until we have
taken over your interesting country. After that, if there is any need
for the broadcasting of heat, we will furnish it ourselves. We have
those facilities, among others, fully developed. Would you care to see
our plant?"

Kendrick naturally admitted that he would, so the dwarf led him
through a rear door and up a winding flight of stairs. They emerged
presently into a great laboratory housed in the glass-roofed pinnacle
of the tower.

There he beheld a sight that left him breathless. Never before had he
seen such an assemblage of scientific apparatus. Its vastness and
strangeness were fairly overpowering, even to a man as well versed in
physio-chemical paraphernalia as he was.

Before his eyes could take in a tenth part of the spectacle, Cor had
led him to the left wall.

"There," he said, "you will observe a development of your heat
generator."

Kendrick looked--to see a long bank of large vacuum-tubes, each about
three feet high and a foot wide, connected by a central shaft that
caused series of little vanes in each of them to revolve at lightning
speed.

Around the apparatus moved numerous small attendants, oiling, wiping,
adjusting its many delicate parts.

"Well, what do you think now?" asked Cor.

Kendrick made no reply, though he was thinking plenty.

"You see, it is your invention, my dear Professor," the dwarf went on
in his taunting voice, "only anteceded by a thousand years--and rather
more perfected, you must admit."

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked now to the center of the laboratory, where stood a huge dial
of white crystal, ranked with many levers and switches, all capped
with the same material.

"Behold!" he said, throwing over one.

Instantly there came again that peculiar low humming that had so
puzzled him a few minutes before--and the entire room, its engines,
its attendants, Cor himself, leapt into invisibility. Only Kendrick
remained, facing the faintly visible crystal dial.

Then he saw a switch move, as though automatically. But no, for the
dwarf's hand was on it now. Visibility had returned. The vibration
ceased.

"That is the central control," said Cor. "Our city and all its
inhabitants become invisible when that switch is thrown. Only the dial
remains, for the guidance of the operator, and even that cannot be
seen at a distance of more than fifty feet. But now behold!"

He raised his hand, touched a watch-like device strapped to his
wrist--and was instantly invisible. But the laboratory and every
machine and person in it remained in plain view. Nor was there any
vibration now.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next moment, having touched that curious little device again, Cor
reappeared.

"That is the local control," he said. "Every one of our inhabitants,
except those under discipline, has one of these little mechanisms. It
enables us to make ourselves invisible at will. A convenience at
times, you must admit."

"Decidedly," Kendrick agreed. "And the principle?"

"Quite simple. One of those, in fact, that lies behind your
researches. Doubtless you would have hit upon it yourself in time.
Your own scientist, Faraday, you may recall, held the opinion that the
various forms under which the forces of matter manifest themselves
have a common origin. We of the disc, thanks to our great Ravv, have
found that common origin."

It was the origin of matter itself, Cor said, which lay in the ether
of interstellar space--energy, raw, cosmic--vibrations, rays.

By harnessing and controlling these various rays, his people had been
able to accomplish their seeming miracles--miracles that the people of
earth, too, were beginning to achieve--as in electricity, for
instance, and its further application, radio.

But the people of Vada had long since mastered such simple rays, and
now, in possession of vastly more powerful ones, had the elemental
forces of the universe at their disposal.

       *       *       *       *       *

The disc was propelled through space by short rays of tremendously
high frequency, up above the ultra-violet. The same rays, directed
downward instead of outward, enabled them to overcome the pull of
gravity when in a planet's influence, as at present. And the escalator
rays, by which they could proceed to and from the disc, were also of
high frequency, as were their invisibility rays.

"But you, Professor, are more interested in low frequency rays, the
long ones down below infra-red," continued Cor. "You have seen our
development of the heat-dynamo principle. It utilizes, I might add,
not only solar radiation but that of the stars as well. There being a
billion and a half of these in the universe, many of them a thousand
times or more as large as your own sun, we naturally have quite an
efficient little heating plant here. It provides us with our weapon of
warfare, as well as keeping us warm. Permit me to demonstrate."

He led the way to a gleaming circle of glass like an inverted
telescope, about a yard in diameter, mounted in the floor.

"Look!" said the dwarf.

Kendrick did so--and there, spread below him, lay the floor of the
desert. His camp, his apparatus, were just as he had left them.

Cor now moved toward the dial.

"Behold!" he said, pulling a lever.

Instantly the scene below was an inferno. Stricken by a blast of
stupendous heat, the whole area went molten, lay quivering like a lake
of lava in the crater of an active volcano.

"Suppose, my dear Professor," smiled the dwarf, strolling back from
the dial, "just suppose, for instance, that instead of the lonely
camp of an obscure scientist, your proud city of New York had been
below there!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kendrick shuddered.

Well he knew now the terrible power, the appalling menace of this
strange invader.

"I would prefer not to make such a supposition," he said, quietly,
with a last thoughtful glance at that witches' caldron below.

"Then let us think of pleasanter things. You are my guest of honor,
sir--America's foremost scientist, though she may never realize it,"
with a piping chuckle. "To-night there will be a great banquet in your
honor. Meanwhile, suppose I show you to your quarters."

Nettled, fuming, though outwardly calm, Kendrick permitted himself to
be escorted from the laboratory to an ornate apartment on one of the
lower floors.

There Cor left him, with the polite hint that he would find plenty of
attendants handy should he require anything.

Alone now, in the midst of this vast, nightmarish metropolis, he paced
back and forth, back and forth--knowing the hideous fate that
threatened the world but powerless to issue one word of warning, much
less avert it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kendrick was still thinking and brooding along these lines when he saw
the door of the apartment swiftly open and close again.

Someone had entered, invisible!

Backing away, he waited, tense. Then, suddenly, his visitor
materialized. With a gasp, he saw standing before him a beautiful
girl.

She was a young woman, rather, in her early twenties. Not one of these
pigmies of the disc either, but a tall, slender creature of his own
world.

Her hair was dark, modishly bobbed. Her eyes were a deep, clear brown,
her skin a warm olive. And she was dressed as though she had just
stepped off Fifth Avenue--which indeed she had, not so long ago, as
he was soon to learn.

"I hope I haven't startled you too much, Mr. Kendrick," she said, in a
rich, husky murmur, "but--well, there wasn't any other way."

"Oh, I guess I'll get over it," he replied with a smile. "But you have
the advantage of me, since you know my name."

Hers was Marjorie Blake, she told him then.

"Not the daughter of Henderson Blake?" he gasped.

"Yes," with a tremor, "his only daughter."

Whereupon Kendrick knew the solution of a mystery that had baffled the
police for weeks. The newspapers had been full of it at the time. This
beautiful girl, whose father was one of America's richest men and
president of its largest bank, had disappeared as though the earth had
swallowed her. She had left their summer estate at Great Neck, Long
Island, on a bright June morning, bound for New York on a shopping
tour--and had simply vanished.

       *       *       *       *       *

Suicide had been hinted by some of the papers, but had not been taken
seriously, since she had no apparent motive for ending her life.
Abduction seemed to be the more logical explanation, and huge rewards
had been offered by her frantic parents--all to no avail.

What had happened was, she now explained, that after visiting several
shops and making a number of purchases, she had stepped into Central
Park at the Plaza for a breath of fresh air before lunching at the
Sherry-Netherlands, where she planned to meet some friends.

But before advancing a hundred yards along the secluded path, she had
been seized by invisible hands--had felt something strapped to her
wrist, before anyone came in sight--and then, invisible too, had been
lifted up, whirled away into a vast, humming vibration that sounded
through the air.

Once on the disc, it had swept off into space at incredible speed,
pausing only when some hundreds of miles above the earth and invisible
from below without mechanical aid. When its vibration finally ceased
that amazing city had leapt before her eyes.

Then, her own visibility restored, she had been led into the presence
of that mighty little monarch, Cor, who explained that she had been
seized as a hostage and would be held as an ace in the hole, pending
conquest of her country. Since when she had been a prisoner aboard the
disc.

       *       *       *       *       *

Learning of Kendrick's capture, from gossip among the women, she had
taken the first opportunity of coming to him, in the hope that between
them they might devise some means of escape.

Indeed, that was his own fondest hope--their imperative need, if the
people of America and of the earth were to be saved from this
appalling menace. But what basis was there for such a fantastic hope?
Just one, that he could see.

"That thing on your wrist," he said, voicing it. "I'm surprised they
let you wear one of those."

"They don't," she smiled. "I stole it!--from one of the maids in my
apartment. It was the only way I could get here without being seen. I
felt I must see you at once. We've got to do something, soon, or it'll
be too late. I felt that, as a scientist, you might have some idea how
we could get off."

"How do the people themselves get off?" he asked. "That escalator
ray--do you know how they use it?"

"No, I've never been able to find out. They don't let me go near that
part of the city."

Kendrick reflected a moment.

"Let's have a look at that invisibility affair," he said.

She removed it from her wrist, handed it to him. Somewhat in awe, he
examined it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mechanism portion, which was linked in a strap of elastic metal,
resembled only superficially a watch, he now saw. Rather it had the
appearance of some delicate electric switch. Rectangular in shape, it
was divided into two halves by a band of white crystal. In each of
these halves were two little buttons of the same material, those on
one side round, on the other square.

"Which buttons control the invisibility?" he asked.

"The square ones," she replied. "One's pushed in now, you see. If you
should push the other, the first would come out--and you'd pass out of
the picture, so to speak."

Kendrick was half tempted to try the thing then and there, but
deferred the impulse.

"What are the round buttons for?" he inquired instead.

Marjorie didn't know, but thought they were probably an emergency
pair, in case something went wrong with the square ones. In any event,
nothing happened when you pushed them.

Kendrick pushed one, just to see. It was true. Nothing happened--but
he seemed to sense a faint, peculiar vibration and a wave of giddiness
swept over him. On pushing the other, which released the first, it
stopped.

       *       *       *       *       *

He handed the device back to Marjorie.

"There's your bracelet. Now, if I can just get one like it, I think
we'll get down to earth all right."

"Oh, Mr. Kendrick!" Her eyes lit up eagerly. "Then you've thought of a
way?"

"Not exactly. I think I've discovered their own way. I can't be
certain, but I'm willing to gamble on it, if you are."

"Then you--you think those round buttons are connected with the
escalator rays?"

"Exactly! I think they control individual descent and ascent, just as
the square ones control individual visibility and invisibility. At
any rate, it's the hunch I'm going to act on right now, if you're with
me."

"Oh, I'm with, you!" she breathed. "Anything, death almost, would be
preferable to this."

"Then stand by, invisible. I'm going to get one of my jailors in here
and relieve him of his wrist-watch."

Marjorie touched that little square button on her own. She instantly
became invisible.

Kendrick touched a button too, a button he had noticed beside the
door. As he had supposed, it brought one of the Vadans.

Shutting the door quietly, he seized the fellow before he could move
his hand to his wrist. Thwarted in his attempt to vanish from sight,
the diminutive guard attempted an outcry. But Kendrick promptly
throttled him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Marjorie had reappeared by now and together they bound him to a chair
with a gilded cord torn from the drapery.

Removing the precious mechanism from his wrist, Kendrick slipped it on
his own.

"Now let's go!" he said, pressing the protruding square button of the
device. "We haven't a minute to--my golly, what a peculiar sensation!"

"It is rather odd, isn't it?" she laughed, pressing her own and
joining him in that invisible realm.

"Feels like a combination electric massage and cold shower! Where are
you, anyway? I can't see you."

"Of course you can't!" came an unseen tinkle. "Here!"

He felt her brush him.

"Better hold hands," he suggested, then gave an invisible flush he was
glad she couldn't see.

"All right. A good idea."

Her delicate hand came into his, soft, warm. Heart vibrating even
faster than his body, his whole being a-quiver with a strange
exaltation, Kendrick opened the door, and they left the apartment.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next half-hour was the tensest either of then had ever
experienced. Every foot of the way was fraught with peril.

Not only did they have to carefully avoid the visible swarms of little
people who hurried everywhere, but had to be on their guard as well
against any who might be moving about like themselves under cover of
invisibility.

Nor could they use any elevator or public conveyances, but were
obliged to make their way down to the concourse by heaven knew how
many flights of stairs, and cross heaven knew how many teeming streets
on foot, before they reached the amber court, below which the
trap-door and their hope of freedom.

They got there at last, however, descended, and peered down from that
yawning brink upon the desert floor--to draw back with gasps of
dismay. For the area still gleamed semi-molten from the stupendous
blast that had wiped out Kendrick's camp.

"W-what is it?" she gasped.

Swiftly he told her.

"But isn't there any way around it? Look, over there to the left. One
edge of the crater seems to end almost underneath us."

It was true that the center of the caldron was far to the right of
where they stood, and that its left rim was only a little within their
direct line of descent. But to land even one foot inside that inferno
would be as fatal as to alight in its very midst.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kendrick was thinking fast.

"There's just a chance," he said. "It all depends upon how wide the
zone of these escalator rays is, and whether we can tune in on them.
At least, I can probably answer the latter question."

Pushing the protrudent round button on his mysterious bracelet as he
spoke, he leaned over the edge of the trap-door and awaited results.

They were not long in coming. The vibration he was already under from
the invisibility rays seemed to double. Alternate waves of giddiness
and depression, of push and pull, swept over him.

A minute of it was enough. He pressed the round button that now
protruded, ending this influence, and faced Marjorie, stating:

"I'm positive now that these things control descent and ascent. As
nearly as I can figure, the rays work on the principle of an endless
belt. If you're up here, you get carried down, and vice versa. As to
how wide the belt is, and whether you can move sideways on it, remains
to be seen. Anyway, I'm going to take a chance. I'll go first. If my
guess is wrong, you--well, needn't follow."

"No, I'm going with you!" she declared resolutely. "We've come this
far together. I shan't be left alone now. Let's go!"

And again her soft, warm hand was in his.

Lord, what a girl! How many would be brave enough to take a gamble
like that, on a fellow's mere supposition?

"All right--go it is!" he said. "Push your round button, like this."
He showed her the way he thought was right, pushed his own. "Ready?"

"Ready!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Their voices were grave. It was a grim prospect, stepping off into
space like that, with only a guess between them and death.

"Then jump!"

They jumped, gripping each other's hands tightly--and instead of
dropping like plummets were caught in a powerful field of force and
whirled gently downward.

"Oh, you were right!" gasped Marjorie, awed. "See, we--"

Then she paused, horror-stricken, for it was obvious that they were to
descend within that lake of molten glass, unless they could change
their course at once.

"Quick!" he called. "Hold fast! Now--run!"

Breathless, they raced to the left, across that invisible descending
belt.

Too far, Kendrick knew, and they would plunge outside its zone, fall
crushed and mangled. Not far enough, and they would meet cremation. It
was a fearful hazard, either way, but it had to be taken.

They were almost down, now, and still not quite far enough to the
left. The heat of that yawning crater rose toward them.

"Faster--_faster_!" he cried, fairly dragging her along with him.

A last dash--a breathless instant--and they stood there on the ground,
not three feet from the edge of doom.

Swooning with the heat, Marjorie swayed against him, murmured an
incoherent prayer.

"Take heart!" he whispered, lifting her bodily and bearing her some
yards away. "We're down--safe!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Their safety was but relative, however, Kendrick well knew. Until they
could put miles between them and this monstrous disc, they were not
really safe. No telling how soon their escape might be discovered. No
telling what terrible means Cor might take of curbing their flight.

So as soon as Marjorie had recovered sufficiently to proceed, they
headed off across the desert at a fast walk toward Ajo, where he hoped
to catch the afternoon train for Gila Bend. From there, they could
board the limited for Tucson and points east, when it came through
from Yuma that night.

They had tuned out on the escalator rays, but continued on still
invisible--for the disc hung above them in plain view and it would
have been suicide to let themselves be seen.

Even so, Kendrick soon began to have an uneasy feeling of being
followed. He looked around from time to time, but could see nothing.
Were some of those invisible little creatures on their trail?

He said nothing to Marjorie of his anxiety, but presently she too
began glancing backward uneasily, every few steps.

"They are near us!" she said at length, in a whisper. "I can sense
them."

It was more than sense, they soon discovered. Little paddings became
quite audible, and once or twice they saw the sand scuffed up, not
twenty feet away, as though by a foot passing over it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile they were climbing a rise of ground, broken by many small
hummocks and dotted with thorny shrubs. On the other side, at the foot
of a long down-slope, lay Ajo.

Once they reached the summit, Kendrick felt sure they could
outdistance their pursuers on the descent. Already, if his watch was
right, the train was preparing to pull out. It would be a breathless
dash, but he was confident they could make it.

So he reassured Marjorie as best he could, and helped her on up the
slope.

They were practically on the summit and already in view of the little
railroad station and huddle of shacks below--when suddenly he felt
himself tripped and flung violently to the ground. At the same
instant, his companion emitted a scream, as she felt herself seized by
invisible hands.

Leaping to his feet, Kendrick flailed out with solid fists at their
attackers. Groans answered the impacts and he knew his blows were
taking effect.

       *       *       *       *       *

Free for a moment he dashed to Marjorie, felt for the midgets who
swarmed around her. Seizing one of the invisible forms, he lifted it
and flung it crashing to the ground. Another, likewise, and another.

Then he threshed his legs, where two of the creatures clung, trying to
drag him down again. They flew through the air, with cries of fright.

"Well, so far, so good!" he exclaimed. "We won't wait to see if there
are any more. Come on--let's go!"

"Right!"

Reaching for each other's hands, they raced down the slope.

Halfway there they saw a warning blast of steam rise from the engine,
followed by a whistle.

"They'll be pulling out in a minute now!" he gasped, increasing speed.
"We've got to make it!--our only chance!"

"We _will_ make it!" she sobbed through clenched teeth, meeting his
pace.

Glancing over his shoulder, after another fifteen seconds, Kendrick
saw that the disc was no longer visible. Since there was no vibration
he realized with relief that it was now hidden behind the slope they
were descending.

"Quick--push your button!" he said, pushing his own.

They came out of the influence of the invisibility rays, raced
breathless on down the slope--gained the station platform just as the
train was getting under way.

Helping the exhausted girl aboard, he mounted the steps himself, led
her through the vestibule into its single passenger coach.

Dropping into a seat, they sat there panting as the train gathered
speed.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the time the decrepit but life-saving little local drew into Gila
Bend they had somewhat recovered from their harrowing experience.

Marjorie was still pale, however, as Kendrick helped her from the
train.

"I may recover," she said with a wan smile, "but I'll never look the
same! An old saying, but I know what it means now."

He thought better of a sudden impulse to tell her she looked quite all
right to him. Instead, he said grimly:

"I know now what a lot of things mean!"

The Tucson limited would not be through for over an hour, they
learned. That would give them time to hunt up the authorities and
sound a warning of the ominous invader that was in the vicinity.
Perhaps, by prompt military action, it might be destroyed, or at least
crippled.

But first they went to the telegraph office, where Marjorie got off a
message that would bring joy to her grieved family.

While standing there outside the barred window, odors of food wafting
to them from a nearby lunch-room.

"Um-m!" she sniffed. "That smells good to me! I haven't tasted any
earthly cooking for ages. Everything on that horrible disc was
synthetic."

"Then I suggest we have ham and eggs, at once," he said. "Or would you
prefer a steak?"

"I think I'll have both!"

       *       *       *       *       *

As they walked into the lunch-room, Kendrick told her of the banquet
in his honor Cor had promised for that night.

"I guess I didn't miss much," he ended.

"You certainly didn't!" she assured him, with a smile. "It would have
opened with a purÃ©e of split-molecule soup, continued with an entrÃ©e
of breaded electrons, and closed with an ionic cafÃ©."

He laughed.

"I'm just as well satisfied. I was unable to attend! Humble as it is,
I think this will prove to be much more wholesome food."

Night had fallen by the time they left the lunch-room. Glancing at his
watch, Kendrick saw that they still had better than a half-hour before
the limited was due, so they betook themselves to the police station.

It was only a block away and in consequence they weren't long reaching
it.

The chief had gone home, the officer at the desk informed them, but if
there was anything they cared to report, he would be glad to make note
of it.

A big raw-boned westerner, he shifted his quid as he spoke and spat
resoundingly in a cuspidor at his feet.

"All right, then--get your pencil ready!" said Kendrick with a smile.
"This is Miss Marjorie Blake, daughter of Henderson Blake, of New
York. Perhaps you read of her disappearance, a few weeks ago. And
I...."

As he introduced himself and told briefly of their astounding
experience, the officer's eyes bulged with amazement.

"Say, what yuh-all tryin' to hand me?" he snorted finally. "D'yuh
think I was born simple?"

"Press your button!" whispered Marjorie. "Show him how the
invisibility ray works. It'll save a lot of argument."

"Right!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He held up his wrist.

"See this? Now watch!"

Whereupon he pressed the button. But to their dismay, nothing
happened.

"Wa-al. I'm still watchin'!" drawled the officer. "Who's loony now?"

Kendrick examined the mechanism in impatience, pressed that little
button repeatedly: but still nothing happened.

"Try yours!" he told Marjorie finally.

She did so, with similar results--or lack of them, rather.

"Something's wrong," he said at length. "The ray isn't working."

"Wrong is right!" declared the officer with a contemptuous flood of
tobacco juice. "Yuh folks better go catch yuhr train 'fore yuh ferget
where it is."

Chagrined, embarrassed, they took their leave, headed back toward the
railroad station.

"Of all the utterly silly things!" declared Marjorie, as they walked
along. "Why do you suppose it didn't work?"

Kendrick didn't reply at once. When he did, his voice was grave.

"Because the disc has gone!" he said. "We are outside its zone of
influence. That's my hunch, at least, and I think we'd better act on
it."

"You mean...?"

"I mean our escape has probably caused them to hurry their plans.
They're probably over New York right now. I think we'd better get
there the quickest possible way."

       *       *       *       *       *

The result was that when the train came, they remained on it only to
Tucson. There they chartered a fast plane and started east at once.

At sunset the following day the plane swooped out of the sky and slid
to rest on the broad grounds of the Blake estate at Great Neck.

As Kendrick stepped from the cabin and helped Marjorie down, a tall,
distinguished-looking man with graying hair and close-cropped mustache
came hurrying toward them.

"Daddy!" she cried, rushing into his arms. "Oh, Daddy--Daddy!"

Even without this demonstration. Kendrick would have recognized
Henderson Blake from pictures he had seen recently in the papers.

Now he was introduced, and Blake was gripping his hand warmly.

"I don't quite know what this is all about, Professor," he heard the
great financier say. "Marjorie's telegram last night was as cryptic as
it was over-joying. But I do know that I owe you a deep debt of
gratitude."

"Yes, and you owe our pilot about a thousand dollars, too!" put in the
daughter of the house, clinging to her father's arm. "Please give him
a check--then we'll go inside and I'll explain all about it."

"A matter very much easier dispatched than my debt to Professor
Kendrick," said Blake, complying.

The check was for two thousand, not one, the pilot saw when he
received it.

"Thank you very much, sir!" he said, saluting.

"Don't mention it. Good night--and good luck to you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The pilot returned to his plane, it lifted from the lawn, droned off
into the twilight.

Then they approached the cool white villa that stood invitingly a
hundred yards or so away beyond sunken gardens.

As they neared it, a handsome, well-preserved woman whose face
reflected Marjorie's own beauty came toward them. Lines of suffering
were still evident around her sensitive mouth, but her dark eyes were
radiant.

"Mother!"

"My poor darling!"

They rushed into each other's arms, clung, sobbing and laughing.

Kendrick was glad when these intimate greetings were over and he had
met Mrs. Blake.

They were in the drawing-room now, listening to a somewhat more lucid
account of their daughter's experiences and those of her rescuer.
Marjorie was doing most of the talking, but every now and again she
would turn to Kendrick for verification.

"Heavens!" gasped Mrs. Blake, finally. "Can such things be possible?"

"Almost anything seems possible nowadays, my dear," her husband told
her. "And you say, Professor, that you have brought back samples of
this invisibility device?"

"Yes, we have, but I can't promise they'll work. I'll try, however."

Whereupon, sceptically, he pressed that little square button--and
instantly faded out of sight.

"Good Lord!" cried Blake, leaping to his feet. "That proves it! Why,
this is positively--"

       *       *       *       *       *

His remarks were cut short by a scream of terror from his wife.

"Marjorie--Marjorie!" she shrieked.

Wheeling, he faced the chair where his daughter had sat. It was empty,
so far as human eyes could see.

"Don't worry Mother--Daddy!" came a calm voice from it. "I'm quite all
right--coming back--steady."

And back she came, as did Kendrick, from the empty chair beside her.

His face was grave. The success of the demonstration, which had proved
their story to practical-minded Henderson Blake, had proved to him
something altogether more significant. The disc, as he had surmised,
had rushed eastward immediately on learning of their escape, and was
now probably hovering right over New York.

"Marvelous--marvelous!" declared Blake. "But that heat ray, Professor.
That sounds bad. You are convinced it is as powerful as they make
out!"

"Positively! That blast they let go in the desert would have utterly
destroyed New York."

"Hm! Yes, no doubt you're right. I fully realize how the fearful
menace of this thing. Do you think the military authorities will be
able to cope with it?"

"I don't know. Perhaps, if they are prompt enough."

"And is there no other way--no scientific way?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kendrick grew thoughtful.

"I wonder," he said at last. "There's just a possibility--something
running through my mind--an experiment I'd like to make, if I had the
facilities of some large electrical laboratory."

"You shall have them to-morrow!" Blake promised. "I'm one of the
directors of Consolidated Electric. Their experimental laboratory in
Brooklyn is the finest of its kind in America. I'll see that you have
the run of it."

"That will be very kind," said Kendrick. "But don't expect anything to
come from it, necessarily. It's just a theory I want to work out."

A butler entered at this moment and announced dinner.

"Well, theories are mighty these days!" beamed Blake, as they rose,
clapping the younger man on the shoulder. "You go ahead with your
theories--and I'll bring a few facts to bear. To-morrow noon I'll
escore some military men and others of my friends over to the
laboratory to hear and see something of this menace direct. Meanwhile,
and during this crisis, it will honor me to have you as my guest."

"Our guest!" amended Marjorie, with a warm smile.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next morning Blake motored Kendrick out to the Brooklyn Laboratory of
the Consolidated Electric Utilities Corporation and installed him
there.

Then he left--to return at noon with the promised delegation of
generals, admirals, statesmen and financiers.

They were all frankly sceptical, though realizing that Henderson Blake
was not a man given to exaggeration. Nor did their scepticism
altogether vanish when Kendrick had ended his bizarre story with a
demonstration of the invisibility device.

Murmurs of amazement ran around the laboratory, it is true, but the
more hard-headed of his spectators charged him with having invented
the apparatus himself. Though they didn't come right out and say so,
they seemed to imply that he was seeking publicity.

Annoyedly, Kendrick tried to refute their charges. But even as he was
summoning words, refutation utter and complete came from the air.

A low, humming vibration sounded, grew in volume till it filled the
room--and as suddenly ceased: The light of midday faded to twilight.

"_The disc!_" gasped Kendrick, rushing to the west windows.

They followed, tense with awe. And there, between earth and sun, its
myriad towers and spires refracting a weird radiance, hovered that
vast flying city.

"My God!" muttered a famous general, staring as though he had seen a
ghost.

A great statesman opened his lips, but no words came.

"Appalling! Incredible!" burst from others of that stunned assemblage.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their comments were cut short by a broadcast voice, thin and clear,
tremendously amplified, a voice Kendrick recognized at once as that of
Cor.

"People of America!" it said. "We of the planet Vada have come to
conquer your country. You will be given forty-eight hours to lay down
your arms. If complete surrender has not been made by high noon, two
days from now, New York will be destroyed."

The voice ceased. The humming recommenced--waned in volume till it
died away. Twilight turned once more to midday.

Peering fixedly through the west windows of the laboratory, the little
assemblage saw the disc swallowed up in the clear blue sky.

Then they turned, faced one another gravely.

Outside, on the streets, confusion reigned. In newspaper plants,
presses were whirling. In telegraph and cable offices, keys were
ticking. From radio towers, waves were speeding.

Within an hour, the nation and the world knew of this planetary
invader and its staggering ultimatum.

Naturally, the government at Washington refused to meet these shameful
terms. Military and naval forces were rushed to the threatened
metropolis. The Atlantic Fleet steamed up from Hampton Roads under
forced draught and assembled in the outer harbor. Thousands of planes
gathered at Mitchell Field and other nearby aerodromes.

       *       *       *       *       *

But where was the enemy? He must be miles up in space, Kendrick knew,
as he toiled feverishly in the laboratory over his experiment after a
sleepless night. For had that flying city been nearer earth, it could
not have maintained invisibility without that peculiar humming
vibration.

Scout planes urged on by impatient squadron commanders, climbed till
they reached their ceilings, searching in vain. They could encounter
nothing, see nothing of the invader.

Thus passed a morning of growing tension.

But by noon of that day, with a bare twenty-four hours left before
the expiration of the ultimatum, the disc came down, showed itself
boldly.

There followed stunning disasters.

One salvo, and the ray shot down--the Atlantic Fleet, the pride of
America, burst and melted in flaming hell. Squadrons of planes,
carrying tons of bombs, frizzled like moths in the air. Mighty
projectiles hurled by land batteries were deflected off on wild
trajectories.

Appalled, the nation and the world followed in lurid extras these
crushing defeats.

By nightfall of that day, all seemed lost. All opposition had been
obliterated. America must capitulate or perish. It had until the next
noon to decide which.

       *       *       *       *       *

Meanwhile, in that great Brooklyn laboratory, Kendrick was working
against time, besieged by frantic delegations of the nation's leaders.
They knew now that their one hope lay in him. Was he succeeding? Was
there even any hope?

Face haggard, eyes bloodshot from lack of sleep, he waved them away,
went on with his work.

"I will tell you--as soon as I know."

That was all he would say.

Followed a night that was the blackest in all history, though the
myriad stars of heaven shone tauntingly brilliant in the summer sky.

At length, as dawn was breaking. Kendrick paused in his labors.

"There!" he said, grimly, surveying an apparatus that seemed to
involve the entire facilities of the laboratory. "It is done! Now
then--will it work?"

The delegation were called to witness the test.

Henderson Blake was among them, as was Marjorie. She stepped forward,
as he prepared to make the demonstration.

"I _know_, somehow, you're going to be successful!" she murmured,
pressing his hand, meeting his eyes with a smile of confidence.

"I hope you're right--Marjorie!" he replied, letting slip the last
word almost unconsciously.

Her face colored warmly as the stepped back and rejoined her father.

Kendrick's heart was beating fast as he turned to his instruments. How
could he fail, with faith like that behind him?--love, even, perhaps!
He mustn't fail--nor would he, if his theories were sound.

       *       *       *       *       *

Addressing the assemblage, he explained briefly the complicated
apparatus.

"These towers," he said, pointing to four steel structures about ten
feet high, arranged at the corners of a square roughly twenty feet
across, "are miniature radio masts. The area enclosed by them, we will
assume, is the city of New York. That metal disc suspended above the
area represents the invader. It contains a miniature heat-generator
such as I was experimenting with recently in the Arizona desert."

He paused, threw a switch. Somewhere in the laboratory a dynamo began
to whir.

"I am now sending electro-magnetic waves from the four towers," he
resumed. "But instead of broadcasting them in every direction. I am
bending them in concave cathode of force over the city. You may
picture this cathode as an invisible shield, if you choose, but it is
more than that. It it a reflector. If my theories are right, the
radio-energetic ray I am about to project upon it from my miniature
disc will be flung back to its source as though it had been a ray of
light falling on a mirror. The success of the experiment depends upon
what the result will be."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kendrick ceased, moved toward a rheostat.

As he made ready to touch it, a breathless tension settled upon the
assemblage. Upon the outcome of what was now to happen rested the fate
of America--and the world.

Calmly, though every fiber of his being was at breaking stress, the
young scientist opened the rheostat.

For an instant, the ray seared down--then, as it boomeranged back, the
disc burst into flame, dissolved, disintegrated. A thin dust, like
carbon, slowly settled to the laboratory floor.

Cutting off the current from the radio towers, Kendrick faced them, a
light of triumph in his tired eyes.

"You see--it works," he said.

They saw. Beyond a doubt, it worked!

And what Kendrick saw, as his eyes met Marjorie's, made him forget his
fatigue.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rest was a mad scramble of preparation. Only a few brief hours
remained, and much was to be done.

The application of the principle that had just been demonstrated
involved a hook-up from the Consolidated Electric laboratory with
every broadcasting station in the metropolitan area, power being
supplied by commandeering every generating plant within a radius of
fifty miles.

The city, moreover, had to be evacuated of all but the few brave
hundreds who volunteered to stand by their posts at radio stations and
generating plants.

As for Kendrick, it was the busiest, most hectic morning he had ever
experienced. Only the realization of a girl's love and a nation's
trust enabled him to overcome the exhaustion of two sleepless nights.

At length, a little before eleven, all was in readiness. Just two
questions troubled the young scientist's mind. Had the people of the
disc learned of their preparations to counter the attack? And would
the improvised broadcasting apparatus of the area stand the stupendous
strain that would be placed upon it if the ray came down?

The first of these questions was answered, staggeringly, at a quarter
after eleven.

"Kendrick--oh, my God!" cried Blake, bursting into the laboratory.
"Marjorie--they've got her again! Look! Read this!"

He thrust out a piece of paper. Kendrick took it, read:

     Your daughter will be my queen, after this noon.

"Where'd you get it?" he gasped.

"One of the invisible devils thrust it into my hand right out in the
street, not five minutes ago," Blake explained, trembling with
anguish. "Do you realize what this means, Kendrick? She's on the disc
now--and in a scant three-quarters of an hour...."

"Yes, I realize!" his voice came grimly. "And I realize, too, that
they don't know their fate. They'll stay. There's forty-five minutes
yet. We can't abandon our defense against the ray, not even for
Marjorie. But I'll go, I'll rescue her--or die with her!"

And even as Blake mutely reached out his hand to grip that of the
determined young man who stood before him. Kendrick touched his wrist
mechanism and went invisible.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once on the street, he pressed the escalator button as well--and by
the strength of the vibrations that followed, he knew he must be very
close within that mysterious lifting zone.

Running west a block, he found it growing stronger.

Fairly racing now, he continued on toward the river, progress
unhampered in the deserted streets. Suddenly, with a thrill of
exultation, he felt himself swept up, whirled away toward that great
shimmering hulk against the sun.

"What hope?" he was thinking. "What possible hope?" And the answer
came: Cor!

Reaching the disc, he switched out the escalator influence and
hastened across the city to that monumental structure of jade-green
stone.

The mighty little dwarf would be up there in his glittering mosaic
apartment, or in his pinnacle laboratory, perhaps, ready to pull the
lever that would release that stupendous blast of heat.

Gaining the jewelled door of the monarch's quarters at last, after
escaping detection by a hair's breadth more than once, he pressed the
button outside, just as the guard had done that first time.

In response, the door opened--and there stood Cor.

       *       *       *       *       *

He stood there an instant, that is, while the expression on his
leathery face went from inquiry to alarm. Then, as Kendrick burst into
the room and shut the door, he went invisible.

In that same instant, the young scientist's eyes beheld a sight that
caused his heart to leap. There sat Marjorie, bound in a chair, an
expression half of hope, half of dejection, on her face.

"It's I--Gordon!" he called. "Take courage!"

"Oh, I prayed so you'd come--and you came!" she murmured as her face
lighted. Then, tensely, she added, "The door--look out!"

Kendrick wheeled, and just in time. The door was opening.

"Not so fast!" he called, lunging.

His hands gripped the dwarf, yanked him back, throttled him before he
could emit a cry, pushed the door shut.

Cor struggled like a madman, but it was futile. Kendrick's hands cut
into his throat like a vice. After a moment or two, he gasped,
relaxed.

Releasing his grip then, Kendrick felt for his wrist, stripped off his
bracelet--whereupon the dwarf became visible. His face was
putty-white. He was either dead or unconscious.

Restoring his own visibility then, he advanced to Marjorie, swiftly
freed her.

"Take this!" he said, handing her Cor's bracelet.

She slipped it on.

"Now let's tie him and get out of here. He may be dead, but we can't
take any chances."

       *       *       *       *       *

The dwarf wasn't dead, however, for he groaned and opened his eyes as
they lifted him into the chair.

"You win, Professor--but it avails you nothing!" He smiled
maliciously. "My capture, my death even, will not prevent the ray. The
orders have been given. It will be projected sharp at twelve. You but
go to your doom!"

"That," said Kendrick, "is a matter of opinion."

Swiftly they bound him, gagged him.

"And now," he added, "we wish you good day--and such fate as you
deserve!"

Then, turning to Marjorie:

"Your hand again!"

There was a new tenderness in its soft warmth that thrilled him.

They touched their buttons, went invisible.

Silently, then, they stole from the apartment. Swiftly they made their
way down to the concourse, raced across the city to the amber court,
descended to the trap-door.

It must be nearly twelve, Kendrick knew. He couldn't look at his
watch, for it as well as himself was invisible. Indeed, even as they
stood there, poised for the plunge, a faint whistle rose from below.

Marjorie trembled.

"Steady!" he spoke. "Some of them always blow a minute or two before.
Are you ready?"

"Yes!"

"Then press your button--jump!"

Even as they leapt, the sickening thought came that perhaps the
escalator ray was no longer running. But the fear was unwarranted.
They were caught up, whirled gently downward.

Moving along laterally, as they descended, they were able to land
without difficulty in the middle of a deserted street near the
Consolidated Electric laboratory.

"Thank heaven!" she sighed, as their feet touched solid ground. They
pressed off both buttons, becoming visible once more.

"Echo!" he agreed. "So let's--"

       *       *       *       *       *

But Kendrick never completed that sentence--for now whistles all over
the metropolitan area, rising from the generating plants, announced
the ominous hour.

It was high noon. The ultimatum had expired.

Lifting tense faces to the disc, they waited. Would that stupendous
ray be hurled back upon itself? Or would it sear through their
makeshift defense, plunging them and the whole great metropolis into
oblivion?

Suddenly, cataclysmically, the answer came.

There burst a withering whirlwind from the disc. It struck that mighty
concave cathode of interlaced waves above the city. There followed an
instant's clash of titanic forces. Then the cathode triumphed, hurled
it back.

Rocked by a concussion as of two worlds in impact, blinded by a glare
that made the sunlight seem feeble in comparison. Marjorie and
Kendrick clung together, while the disc grew into a satellite of
calcium fire in the sky.

Presently, as the conflagration waned, they opened their eyes.
Gravely, but with deep thanksgiving, they searched each other's faces.
In them they read deep understanding, too, and a new hope.

"I think we'd better go and find father," she said at length, quietly.

"I think so too!" he agreed.

As they headed toward the laboratory, a fine, powdery dust, like
volcanic ash was falling.

It continued to fall until the city streets were covered to a depth of
an inch or more.

Thus passed the menace of Vada.

[Advertisement: NO ONE MUST FORGET

_That he has a standing
invitation to_

"Come Over In
'THE READERS' CORNER'"

_And join in the general
discussion of stories,
authors, likes, dislikes--everything
pertaining
to_

ASTOUNDING STORIES

_And Science-Fiction_]




The Readers' Corner

_A Meeting Place for Readers of_ Astounding Stories

[Illustration:]


_To the Rescue_

     Dear Editor:

     I hope you can see fit to print this letter in the July
     issue of Astounding Stories. This letter is written in
     defence of Ray Cummings and in reply to the letter of C.
     Harry Jaeger, 2900 Jordan Road, Oakland, California.

     Following is an extract of Mr. Jaeger's letter: "Also I like
     my authors to make an original contribution to whatever
     theory of science they develop fictionally. This, Ray
     Cummings does not do in his very interesting story,
     "Phantoms of Reality." His beginning is palpably borrowed
     from Francis Flagg's story, "The Blue Dimension," which
     appeared in a Science Fiction magazine in 1927." Another
     paragraph is devoted to explaining his claim. He claims that
     Cummings' method of transporting his characters from one
     dimension or planet to another is practically copied from
     Flagg's story. The method, that is, not the narration. I
     hope to prove that if any borrowing was done, it was done by
     Flagg. Incidentally, Flagg's story "The Blue Dimension" was
     printed in 1928, not 1927, as Mr. Jaeger says.

     I have in my possession a story by Ray Cummings named "Into
     the Fourth Dimension" and published in another magazine
     during the last month of 1926 and first ones of 1927. And in
     this story--printed two years before Flagg's story--Cummings
     uses almost the same apparatus of passing from one dimension
     to another as is used in "Phantoms of Reality." I will not
     discuss whether this procedure is to be approved or not.

     This letter is not to be construed as an attack on Mr.
     Jaeger, or Mr. Flagg, or on either of the two stories under
     discussion.

     If Mr. Jaeger will let me know I will send him Ray Cumming's
     story "Into the Fourth Dimension," as clipped from the
     magazines.

     I write this letter to the magazine, instead of Mr. Jaeger,
     so that if any one was misled by Mr. Jaeger's well meant but
     mistaken criticism they will be straightened out.--Donald
     Coneyon, Petoskey, Michigan.


_A Wish for Success_

     Dear Editor:

     I have read both of your first issues. I am writing to say
     that I wish you success with your new magazine, which I know
     will succeed.

     Also to say I wish you would get more of the "Carnes and Dr.
     Bird Stories" by Captain S. P. Meek, for I think everybody,
     including myself, likes them. I also enjoyed "Creatures of
     the Light."--Thomas D. Taylor, 415 So. 7th St., Boise,
     Idaho.


_No Kick Any More_

     Dear Editor:

     I have been a reader of Astounding Stories ever since you
     started it, and I guess I'm getting too particular as I
     don't get the kick out of it any more that I did out of the
     first issues. That is, I don't get the kick out of ALL of
     the stories as I did at first. However, "Murder Madness"
     sure is a hot one. Why not print a story by Sax Rohmer, H.
     G. Wells, or some of them?--H. Elsworth Jones, Box 340, R.
     R. 6, Battle Creek, Mich.


_Via Postcard_

     Dear Editor:

     Astounding Stories is an astounding magazine. It has really
     astounding stories. It couldn't be better. There's hardly
     room for improvement. May Astounding Stories be more
     astounding yet. I like it!--Monroe Hood Stinson, 1742, 12th
     Ave., Oakland, California.


_Only Fiction!_

     Dear Editor:

     I have just finished a story in the February, 1930, issue of
     Astounding Stories entitled "Into Space," by Sterner St.
     Paul.

     I would like to know if it is a true story, if the actions
     described in it really happened, or is it merely a story of
     fiction.--Dan S. Scherrer, Shawneetown, Ill.


_Perhaps--Soon_

     Dear Editor:

     I have just finished reading your new magazine, Astounding
     Stories. It is the best magazine I have ever read. Keep up
     the good work and you will find me a constant reader. I have
     only one suggestion to make: Let Astounding Stories come out
     every other Thursday.--Harold Kulko, 433 Palmer E., Detroit,
     Michigan.


_More Preferences_

     Dear Editor:

     I have read with great interest the second issue of
     Astounding Stories and note your invitation for readers to
     express themselves.

     I enjoyed the whole magazine, finding the literary quality
     surprisingly high. Especially good were "Spawn of the
     Stars," and "Creatures of the Light." Harl Vincent's tale
     was the best of his I have read; and Captain Meek's are
     always good. "The Corpse on the Grating," however, was
     merely Poe's "Fall of the House of Usher" done over, and not
     half so well.

     As for the sort of tales I like, here they are in order of
     preference:

     1. Tales of weird mystery--Merritt's "Moon Pool" and his
     others; Taine's "White Lily."

     2. Interplanetary Adventure--"A Columbus of Space," by
     Serviss; "The Skylark of Space," by Smith.

     3. "Different stories," that defy classification, based on
     new ideas of science--most of Wells' short stories are
     examples. 4. Detective, Fourth Dimension, and air
     adventure--only well done.--Jack Williamson, Box 661 Canyon,
     Texas.


_A Brick or Two_

     Dear Editor:

     For the last three years we have been reading any and all of
     the various Science Fiction magazines which have appeared
     upon the market. We therefore feel that we are as well
     qualified as anyone to offer the criticism and advice that
     follows.

     First, the stories. We feel that it would be a good idea to
     get your stories from the same authors whose work has been
     and is being accepted by the other magazines in this field.
     In one case you have already done this, and I consider his
     stories to be the best in each issue. I believe that you
     will be forced to do this eventually, anyhow, because the
     people who read this magazine will naturally be readers of
     the others also, and will therefore, be used to the
     standards set by those publications. Then, you should have
     someone who is well qualified to pass upon the science in
     the stories.

     Second, the cover design and the pictures at the beginning
     of each story. Up to this time the cover and inside pictures
     have contained many mistakes. The cover of the March issue
     was especially atrocious. In the first place a voyager in
     outer space would find it jet black and studded with stars,
     instead of blue and apparently empty, except for a few
     tremendously oversize planets, a moon with entirely too many
     craters, and a total eclipse of the sun with a very much
     distorted corona visible beside the earth. Illustrations by
     your cover artist also appear in another publication, but
     these are much superior to the ones in Astounding Stories.
     Here also a scientific advisor would be welcome.

     Third, I think it would be a good idea to have a department
     in which readers could write their opinions of the stories
     and suggest improvements in the conduct of the magazine.

     Fourth, I think there should be a scientific editorial in
     each issue by some eminent scientist. This is also a feature
     in the other magazines.

     We hope that you take these criticisms and suggestions, as
     they were offered, in good faith. We also hope that the
     circulation will increase as the magazine becomes
     better.--George L. Williams and Harry Heillisan, 5714 Howe
     St., Pittsburgh, Pa.


"_Wonderful_"

     Dear Editor:

     I received your magazine last week, Astounding Stories, and
     I think it is wonderful. I am very glad that I subscribed
     for it. I can hardly wait to get the latest one which I
     hoped to receive to-day and was very much disappointed when
     it did not arrive. I hope you will consider a quarterly or
     at least an annual in the near future.

     I wish you success with this magazine, and hope you will
     forgive my writing you so often in reference to your
     magazine--Louis Wentzler, 1935, Woodbine St., Brooklyn, New
     York.


--_But We Made Our Bow Only Last January!_

     Dear Editor:

     Last month my boy brought one copy of this magazine home,
     and I want to ask you if you would send me the copies from
     last January, 1929, up to December, 1929. If you charge no
     more than $3.00 would you send them C. O. D.? Do you have
     the issues for 1928, too?

     I never knew there was a magazine like that on the market. I
     never bought one because most of them are no good, and when
     one has children one has to be doubly careful.

     But this magazine is just right. No silly love stories and
     mushy stuff in them. It sure keeps your mind from unpleasant
     things. We can get them from the newsstand but I would like
     to subscribe for them.

     Keep up the good work and please send me the last year's
     copies and let me know if I could get 1928, too.--Mrs. M.
     Ristan, 4684, No. Broadway, Denver, Colorado.


"_Best One Yet_"

     Dear Editor:

     The April issue is the best one you have put out yet. Arthur
     J. Burks is GOOD. I hope to see much of him in the future.
     "Brigands of the Moon," by Ray Cummings, is getting better
     with each instalment. The stories of Dr. Bird are always
     interesting. I would like to see one in each issue, if you
     could arrange for it.

     As long as the other readers like the size of Astounding
     stories, I will, too, but please cut all edges smooth like
     the latest issue of Five Novels Monthly. I would like to see
     a full-page illustration with each story, and if possible by
     Wesso.

     I am glad that you are starting another serial in the May
     issue of Astounding Stories. I like serials and I hope that
     you will always have two in each issue.

     Your schedule for the May issue looks good, and I'm sure it
     will be, with such authors as Murray Leinster, Victor
     Rousseau, Ray Cummings, Harl Vincent and Sewell P. Wright.

     I am still waiting for a different colored cover.--Jack
     Darrow, 4225, N. Spaulding Ave., Chicago, Illinois.


_An Enthusiastic Reader_

     Dear Editor:

     As a reader of long standing of Science Fiction I feel I am
     qualified to make some remarks and give my opinion of the
     wonderful Astounding Stories magazine lately put out.
     Although I read three other Science Fiction magazines none
     of them have aroused in me such a wonderful enthusiasm as
     Astounding Stories. Before I forget it I want to mention
     that I read two quarterlies also.

     The reason, or rather reasons, for my enthusiasm I will now
     enumerate. (1) The stories are wonderful. (2) The binding is
     very strong and efficient. (3) The print is just right, and
     soothing to the eyes of one who reads much. The paper is
     good, and the size and price of the magazine is just right.
     The covers are excellent, and with the addition of "The
     Readers' Corner" the magazine becomes absolutely perfect.
     Truly a wonderful start. See that it is kept up. The only
     thing that can still spoil the magazine is poor stories.
     Science Fiction stories that contain no science.

     In "Vampires of Venus" the plot was rather weak. Even if the
     Venerians knew nothing of entomology, they should have
     brains enough to get rid of the vampires the way Leslie
     Larner did without having to call an Earthman to help them.
     Another thing: the Venerians kept only insects that were not
     harmful to the crops. On Earth there are such insects who
     help the farmer by eating harmful insects. If the harmful
     insects were exterminated--an almost impossible and gigantic
     task--the harmless insects would change their diet and
     become harmful too. And it seems funny, too, that such a
     highly civilized planet as Venus should still depend on
     domesticated animals for food, drink and clothing instead of
     manufacturing what they need synthetically.

     The April cover on your magazine was wonderful.

     Before I close I wish to say a word about the Science
     Correspondence Club of which I am a proud member. There is
     little to say, however, after reading Conrad Ruppert's
     letter in the April issue. The membership has increased to
     over 300 now, numbering among them quite a number of famous
     scientists and authors. All I can say is that I hope every
     scientifically inclined person of whatever nationality,
     creed, color or sex they may be, will join this wonderful
     and rapidly progressing club. I will now close thanking the
     publishers of Astounding Stories for issuing such a
     wonderful magazine--Stan Osowski, E2, Railroad St., Central
     Falls, R. I.


_But--Conniston Was An Impostor!_

     Dear Editor:

     I read with interest Mr. Ray Cummings' story, "Brigands of
     the Moon," in the March number of Astounding Stories. The
     tale was a worthy one from the pen of so clever a writer. I
     do think, however, that the author might have left out the
     point about Sir Arthur Conniston, an English gentleman,
     turning traitor. This sort of thing is hardly calculated to
     bring about a friendly feeling between England and America,
     the two greatest countries in the world. I have the greatest
     admiration for the United States, and though we may have a
     little fun at each other's expense, there is no ill feeling
     meant, but I really hope you will not publish any other
     story like that one.--An Englishman, Montreal, Canada.


_Likes the Romance_

     Dear Editor:

     I have just finished my second copy of Astounding Stories
     and I wish to say I have enjoyed every story.

     For some time I have been a reader of Science Fiction, but
     none will compare to Astounding Stories. These stories seem
     to have the proper amount of romance in them to make them
     really interesting, and it adds the proper touch.

     I have no criticism to make. May I wish you a great success
     with this magazine--Frank I. Sontag, 825 Prescott Ave.,
     Scranton, Pa.


_High Praise_

     Dear Editor:

     Allow me to congratulate you upon the establishment of "The
     Readers' Corner." I do not know which was the first issue of
     your delightful magazine, but I have been buying it
     regularly for quite a few months.

     I may not be an experienced critic, but it can be easily
     seen by anyone that this magazine is one of the best on
     sale. I, for one, enjoy your stories more than any other
     stories I have ever read.

     I have just finished the second part of the four-part serial
     entitled "Brigands of the Moon." I thing Ray Cummings is the
     best author I have ever met up with in stories. The drawings
     are fine, the print is excellent, but I think the paper
     could be improved. But by no means change the size of your
     little magazine. The size is just right.

     In your April issue I read in "The Readers' Corner" about a
     Science Correspondence Club. Believe me when I say I'm
     sending immediately for an application blank. I think the
     idea of this club is excellent.

     Truly you have contributed a great gift to Science Fiction
     readers in offering this magazine to the receptive
     public.--Theodore L. Page, 2361 Los Angeles Ave.,
     Pittsburgh, Pa.


"_Don't Do It!_"

     Dear Editor:

     This afternoon I saw Astounding Stories for the first time
     and immediately grabbed a copy, as I have read others of the
     Clayton group, and moreover am a Science Fiction fan.

     The newsstand has no back numbers, and I simply must have
     the March 1930 issue, as I wish to read "Brigands of the
     Moon," so here is 25Â¢, in stamps to cover purchase price and
     cost of mailing me a copy of that issue.

     Have you a complete file since Vol. 1, No. 1? If so, what is
     the cost including charges? I'm sorry that I missed this
     magazine before, but you can rest assured that I'll miss no
     more.

     In the "Readers' Corner" I notice a call from Stephen Takacs
     for a change in size. DON'T DO IT! The size and shape are O.
     K., and to make it the awkward size of most magazines
     (including two of the Science Fiction magazines that I am
     now a confirmed reader of), would not improve it a bit.

     You have two of my favorite authors in the April number; no,
     I see it is three--Burks, Cummings and Meek. They are O. K.,
     but don't forget a few others, such as Burroughs, Verrill,
     Hamilton, Coblentz, Keller, Quinn, Williamson, Leinster,
     Repp, Vincent, Flagg--oh, why continue; you certainly know
     all the good authors of OUR kind of fiction; try them all.
     Of course, the other Science Fiction magazines that I take
     are full of stories by my favorites, but you can get stories
     by them too.

     From this one issue that I have read I can see only praise
     for your publication. Here's to a long life and a happy one.

     Don't forget to send me the March issue as fast as the mail
     can get it here--Robert J. Hyatt, 1353 Kenyon St., N. W.,
     Washington D. C.


"_Worst Ever Read_"

     Dear Editor:

     Since you invite criticism as well as praise, I am impelled
     to state that by far the worst story I ever read in any
     Science Fiction magazine was "Vampires of Venus," by Anthony
     Pelcher, which appeared in your April issue. It was so
     idiotic, so flat and inane, that it might have passed for a
     burlesque rather than a straight story, were it not
     painfully evident that the author was serious. The yarn was
     unworthy of Astounding Stories and did not belong in this
     magazine.

     The other stories, except for an amateurish attempt called
     "The Man Who Was Dead," were deeply engrossing and of
     unusual merit.--Sears Langell, 1214 Boston Road, New York.


"_The Readers' Corner_"

All Readers are extended a sincere and cordial invitation to "come
over in 'The Readers' Corner'" and join in our monthly discussion of
stories, authors, scientific principles and possibilities--everything
that's of common interest in connection with our Astounding Stories.

Although from time to time the Editor may make a comment or so, this
is a department primarily for _Readers_, and we want you to make full
use of it. Likes, dislikes, criticisms, explanations, roses,
brickbats, suggestions--everything's welcome here; so "come over in
'The Readers' Corner'" and discuss it with all of us!

--_The Editor._

       *       *       *       *       *
       
       
       

ASTOUNDING STORIES OF SUPER-SCIENCE


_On Sale the First Thursday of Each Month_

  W. M. CLAYTON, Publisher
  HARRY BATES, Editor
  DR. DOUGLAS M. DOLD, Consulting Editor

The Clayton Standard on a Magazine Guarantees

_That_ the stories therein are clean, interesting, vivid, by leading
writers of the day and purchased under conditions approved by the
Authors' League of America;

_That_ such magazines are manufactured in Union shops by American
workmen;

_That_ each newsdealer and agent is insured a fair profit;

_That_ an intelligent censorship guards their advertising pages.


_The other Clayton magazines are_:

ACE-HIGH MAGAZINE, RANCH ROMANCES, COWBOY STORIES, CLUES, FIVE NOVELS
MONTHLY, ALL STAR DETECTIVE STORIES, RANGELAND LOVE STORY MAGAZINE,
WESTERN ADVENTURES, and WESTERN LOVE STORIES.

_More than Two Million Copies Required to Supply the Monthly Demand for
Clayton Magazines._


  VOL. IV, No. 3               CONTENTS                  DECEMBER, 1930

  COVER DESIGN                 H. W. WESSOLOWSKI

  _Painted in Oils from a Scene in "The Ape-Men of Xlotli."_

  SLAVES OF THE DUST           SOPHIE WENZEL ELLIS                  295

  _Fate's Retribution Was Adequate. There Emerged a Rat with a
  Man's Head and Face._

  THE PIRATE PLANET            CHARLES W. DIFFIN                    310

  _It is War. Interplanetary War. And on Far-Distant Venus Two
  Fighting Earthlings Stand Up Against a Whole Planet Run Amuck._
  (Part Two of a Four-Part Novel.)

  THE SEA TERROR               CAPTAIN S. P. MEEK                   336

  _The Trail of Mystery Gold Leads Carnes and Dr. Bird to a
  Tremendous Monster of the Deep._

  GRAY DENIM                   HARL VINCENT                         354

  _The Blood of the Van Dorn's Ran in Karl's Veins. He Rode
  the Skies Like an Avenging God._

  THE APE-MEN OF XLOTLI        DAVID R. SPARKS                      370

  _A Beautiful Face in the Depths of a Geyser--and Kirby Plunges
  into a Desperate Mid-Earth Conflict with the Dreadful
  Feathered Serpent._ (A Complete Novelette.)

  THE READERS' CORNER          ALL OF US                            421

  _A Meeting place for Readers of Astounding Stories._

       *       *       *       *       *

  Single Copies, 20 Cents (In Canada, 25 Cents)
  Yearly Subscription, $2.00

Issued monthly by Readers' Guild, Inc., 80 Lafayette St., New York, N.Y.
W. M. Clayton, President; Francis P. Pace, Secretary. Entered as
second-class matter December 7, 1929, at the Post Office at New York.
N.Y., under Act of March 3. 1879. Title registered as a Trade Mark in
the U.S. Patent Office. Member Newsstand Group--Men's List. For
advertising rates address E. R. Crow & Co., Inc., 25 Vanderbilt Ave.,
New York; or 225 North Michigan Ave., Chicago.

       *       *       *       *       *




Slaves of the Dust

_By Sophie Wenzel Ellis_

  Fate's retribution was adequate. There emerged a rat with a man's
  head and face.

  _It's a poor science that would hide from us the great, deep,
  sacred infinitude of Nescience, whither we can never penetrate, on
  which all science swims as mere superficial film._

    --_Carlyle_.

[Illustration: _Sir Basil showed his teeth in his ugly smile. "A creator
is never merciful."_]


The two _batalÃµes_ turned from the open waters of the lower Tapajos
River into the _igarapÃ©_, the lily-smothered shallows that often mark an
Indian settlement in the jungles of Brazil. One of the two half-breed
rubber-gatherers suddenly stopped his _batalÃµe_ by thrusting a paddle
against a giant clump of lilies. In a corruption of the Tupi dialect, he
called over to the white man occupying the other frail craft.

"We dare go no farther, master. The country of the Ungapuks is
bewitched. It is too dangerous."

Fearfully he stared over his shoulder toward a spot in the slimy water
where a dim bulk moved, which was only an alligator hunting for his
breakfast.

Hale Oakham, as long and lanky and level-eyed as Charles Lindbergh, ran
despairing fingers through his damp hair and groaned.

"But how can I find this jungle village without a guide?"

The _caboclo_ shrugged. "The village will find you. It is bewitched,
master. But you will soon see the path through the _matto_."

"Can't you stay by me until time to land? I don't like the looks of
these alligators."

"It is better for a white man to face an alligator than for a _caboclo_
to face an Ungapuk. Once they used to kill and eat us for our strength.
Now--" Again his shrug was eloquent.

"Now?" Hale prompted impatiently.

"The white god who put a spell on these one-time cannibals will bewitch
us and make us wash and rejoice when it is time to die."

       *       *       *       *       *

He shuddered and spat at a cayman that was lumbering away from his
_batalÃµe._

Hale Oakham laughed, a hearty boyish laugh for a rather learned young
professor.

"Is that all they do to you?" he asked.

"No. All who enter this magic _matto_ die soon, rejoicing. Before the
last breath comes, it is said their bodies turn into a handful of silver
dust--poof!--like that." He snapped his dirty fingers. "Then the life
that leaves them goes into rocks that walk."

Hale sighed resignedly. There wasn't any use to argue.

"Unload your _batalÃµe_," he ordered testily, "and get your filthy
carcasses away."

The half-breeds obeyed readily. As the departing _batalÃµe_ turned from
the _igarapÃ©_ into the open water of the river, the young man repressed
a sudden lifting of his scalp. He was in for it now!

His long body sprawled out in the _batalÃµe_, he paddled about aimlessly
for several minutes until he found an aisle through the jungle--the path
that led to the jungle village which he was visiting in the name of
science, and for a certain award.

Before plunging into that waiting tangle where life and death carried on
a visible, unceasing struggle, he hesitated. Instinctively he shrank
from losing himself in that mad green world.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had first heard of the Ungapuks at the convention of the Nescience
Club in New York, that body of scientists, near-scientists and
adventurers linked together for the purpose of awarding the yearly
Woolman prizes for the most spectacular addition of empiric facts to
various branches of science. One of the members of the club, an
explorer, had told a wild yarn about a tribe of Brazilian Indians,
headed by Sir Basil Addington, an English scientist, who was conducting
secret experiments in biochemistry in his jungle laboratory. The
explorer had said that the scientist, half-crazed by a powerful
narcotic, had seemingly discovered some secret of life which enabled him
to produce monsters in his laboratory and to change the physical
characteristics of the Ungapuk Indians, who, in five years, had been
transformed from cannibals into cultured men and women.

And now Hale Oakham, hoping to win one of the Woolman prizes, was here
in the country of the Ungapuks, entering the jungle path that lead to
the unknown.

Fifty feet from the _igarapÃ©_, the path curved sharply away from a giant
tree. Hale approached the bend with his hand on his gun. Just before he
reached it, he stopped suddenly to listen.

A woman's voice had suddenly broken forth in a wild, incredibly sweet
song. Hale stood entranced, drinking in the heady sounds that stirred
his emotions like _masata_, the jungle intoxicant. The singer
approached the bend in the path, while the young man waited eagerly.

The first sight of her made him gasp. He had expected to see an Indian
girl. No sane traveler would imagine a white woman in the Amazon jungle,
with skin as amazingly pale as the great, fleshy victoria regia lilies
in the _igarapÃ©_.

When she saw Hale, she stopped instantly. With a quick, practiced twist,
she reached for the bow flung across her shoulders and fitted a barbed
arrow to the string.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was a beautiful barbarian, standing quivering before him. In the
thick dull gold braids hanging over her bare shoulders flamed two
enormous scarlet flowers, no redder than her own lips pouted in alarm.
There was a savage brevity to her clothing, which consisted only of a
short skirt of rough native grass and breastplates of beaten gold, held
in place by strings of colored seeds.

The girl held out an imperious hand and, in perfect English, said:

"Go back!"

Hale drew his long body up to its slim height, folded his arms, and gave
her his most winning smile. His insolence added to his wholesome good
looks.

"Why?" he exclaimed. "I've come a couple of thousand miles to call on
you."

He saw that the eyes which held his levelly were pure and limpid, and of
an astonishing orchid-blue.

"Who are you?" Her throaty, vibrant voice was a thing of the flesh,
whipping Hale's senses to sudden madness.

"I'm Hale Oakham," he said, a little tremulously, "a lone, would-be
scientist knocking about the jungle. Won't you tell me your name?"

She nodded gravely. "I am AÃ±a. I, too, am white." Her rich voice was
quietly proud. "Come; I'll see if Aimu will receive you."

With surprising, childlike trust, she held out her little hand to him.
The gesture was so delightfully natural that Hale, grinning boyishly,
took her hand and held it as they walked down the jungle path.

"Sing for me," he demanded abruptly. "Sing the song you sang just now."

"That?" asked the girl, turning the virgin-blue fire of her eyes on him.
"That was my death-song that I practice each day. Perhaps soon I shall
be released from this." She passed her hands over her beautiful,
half-clothed body.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hale's warm glance swept over her. "Do you want to die?"

"Yes; don't you? But you do not, or you would not have retreated from my
poisoned arrow."

"No, AÃ±a; I want to live."

"To live--and be a slave of _this_?" Again her hand went over her slim
body. "A slave of a pile of flesh that you must feed and protect from
the agonies that attack it on every side? Bah! But I am hoping that my
turn will come next."

"Your turn for what, AÃ±a?"

"To enter the Room of Release. Perhaps, if Aimu approves of you, you,
too, may taste of death." Her gentle smile was beatific.

"Do you speak of Sir Basil Addington?"

"He was called that once, before he came to us. Now he has no name. We
can find none holy enough for him; and so we call him Aimu, which means
good friend." Her beautiful face was sweet with reverence.

And now, in the distance, Hale saw that the path led into a large
clearing. He slowed his pace, for he wanted to know this lovely girl
better before he joined the Ungapuks.

"Who are you, AÃ±a?" he asked suddenly, bending closer to the crinkled,
dull-gold hair.

"I am AÃ±a, a white woman." She looked at him frankly.

"But who are your parents, and how did you get among the Ungapuks?"

AÃ±a's red lips curved into a dewy smile. "I thought all white men were
wise, like Aimu. But you are stupid. How do you think a white woman
could appear in a tribe of Indians who live in the jungle, many weeks'
journey from what you call civilization?"

Hale looked a little blank and more than a little disconcerted.

"I suppose I am stupid," he said dryly. "But tell me, AÃ±a, how did you
get here?"

"Why," she exclaimed, "he made me!"

"Made you? Good Lord! What do you mean?"

"Just what I said, Hale Oakham. If he can take a few grains of dust and
make a shoot that will grow into a giant tree like yonder monster
itauba, don't you think he can create a small white girl like me?" Her
orchid-blue eyes glowed innocently into his.

       *       *       *       *       *

The eager questions that he would have asked froze upon his lips, for a
party of Indians approached.

The six nearly naked red men came close and surveyed him, toying
nervously with their primitive, feather-decorated weapons.

A tall, handsome young fellow who possessed something of the picturesque
perfection of the North American plains' Indian stepped forward and, in
perfect English, said:

"Good morning, white stranger. What is it you wish of the Ungapuks?"

"I came to see your white _cacique_," said Hale.

"Aimu? What is it you wish of Aimu? He is ours, white stranger."

"Yes, he is yours. I come as a friend, perhaps to help him in his great
work."

"Perhaps!" The young Indian folded his bronze, muscular arms over his
broad chest and continued his cool survey of Hale. "White men before you
have come: spies and thieves. Some we poisoned with curari. Others Aimu
took into the Room of Release."

He turned to AÃ±a, who was still standing by Hale, and his expression
softened.

"What shall we do with him, AÃ±a?" he asked the question, a fleeting look
of hunger swept his fine, flashing eyes.

AÃ±a flushed beautifully, and, moving closer to Hale, with an impulsive,
almost childish gesture, slipped her arm through his.

"Let us take him to our village, Unani Assu!" she suggested. "I like
him."

It was Hale's turn to flush, which he did like a schoolboy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unani Assu's brows drew together in a scowl. The hand holding his
blow-pipe jerked convulsively.

"AÃ±a! Come away!" he growled. "You mustn't touch a stranger!"

AÃ±a's blue eyes stretched with astonishment. "But I like to touch him,
Unani Assu!"

The tall Indian, with a half comical gesture of despair, said:

"Don't misunderstand her, stranger. She is young, very young, ah! And
she has known only the reborn men of the Ungapuks."

He stepped firmly over to AÃ±a, and, taking the girl by the arm, drew her
away.

"Run ahead," he commanded, "and tell Aimu that we come."

AÃ±a, her feathered bamboo anklets clicking together, sped away.

Unani Assu bowed courteously to Hale.

"Come, stranger. If you are an enemy, it is you who must fear." He
motioned for him to proceed down the jungle path.

The path ended at a clearing studded with _moloccas_, the Indian grass
huts made of plaited straw. Altogether the scene was peaceful and sane
and far removed from the strange tales that Hale had heard concerning
the Ungapuks.

Hale was conducted to a long, low stone building, where, in the
doorway, stood a tall and emaciated white man.

"Aimu!" said the Indians reverently, and bowed themselves.

Over the bare, brown backs, the white man looked at Hale.

"Sir Basil Addington?" asked the young man.

"Yes. You are welcome. Come in."

Hale entered the building.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was in a book-filled study, furnished with hand-made chairs and a
desk. Sir Basil asked him to be seated. He offered the young man long,
brown native cigarettes and a very good drink made from yucca.

After several minutes of conversation, Sir Basil suddenly changed his
manner.

"And now," he shot out, eyeing the young man through narrowed lids,
"will you please state the purpose of this visit?"

Hale looked squarely at his questioner. "Frankly, Sir Basil, I have
called on you because I am so intensely interested in your work among
the Ungapuks that I wish to offer my services."

He gave in detail his family history, his education, and his experience
as a teacher and a scientist.

Sir Basil tapped his teeth thoughtfully with a pencil.

"But why do you think you can be of assistance to me?"

"That, of course, is for you to decide."

Hale thought that the scientist looked like a huge, starved crow in his
loose-fitting coat. He was so fleshless that, when the light fell
strongly on his face as it now did, the bones of his head and hands
showed through the skin with horrible clearness.

Hale, under Sir Basil's scrutiny, decided instantly that he did not like
him.

"I need a helper," the scientist went on, with the air of talking to
himself. "A white assistant who neither loves nor fears me. Unani Assu
is good enough in his way, but I need a helper who has had technical
training." Suddenly he wheeled on Hale and asked sharply, "How are your
nerves, young man?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hale started, but managed to answer calmly. "Excellent. My war record
isn't half bad, and that was surely backed with good nerves."

"And you say you have no close relatives, no ties of any sort to
interfere with work that is dangerous--and something else?"

"Not a soul would care if I passed out to-day, Sir Basil."

"Good! And now tell me this: are you one of those scientists whose minds
are so mechanical, so mathematically made, as it were, that your entire
outlook on science is based on old, established beliefs, or do you
belong to that rare but modern type of trained thinker and dreamer who
refuse to permit yesterday's convictions to influence to-day's
visions?"

Hale smiled quietly. "I recently lost my chair in a famous university
because of my so-called unscientific teachings regarding ether-drift."

Expressing himself in purely scientific terms, he went into an
elaboration of his revolutionary theory. When he had finished, Sir Basil
reached out his clawlike hand to him.

"Good!" he approved. "You have dared to think originally. Now listen to
my theory of mind-electrons which has grown into the established fact
that I have discovered the secret of life and death."

The long, thin hands reached into a pocket for a box of pills. He
swallowed one greedily, and immediately his emaciated face seemed
charged with new virility.

He spoke out suddenly. "Our world, you know, is made up of three powers:
matter, energy and what you call life. I might really say that there are
but two powers, for matter, in its last analysis, is a form of energy.
And what is life? You can't call it a form of energy, for every
inorganic atom has energy without having life. Life, Mr. Oakham, is
mind or consciousness."

He began pacing the floor restlessly. "Everything that lives has this
consciousness, and I say this in defiance of some fixed scientific
views. The amoeba in a stagnant pool, a thallophyte on a bit of old
bread, any of the myriads of trees and plants that you see in the jungle
all have consciousness as well as you. And why?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He brought his fist down upon the table. "Because they issue from the
same source as you and I, the almighty mind, eternal, indestructible,
which has permitted itself to be enslaved by matter. You are Hale
Oakham. I am Basil Addington, yet we are one and the same. Let me
illustrate."

He seized a glass and poured it full of _masata_. "Look! Two portions of
_masata_. But I pour what is in the glass back into the bottle. The
molecules cohere and the two portions become one again. Some day you and
I--our individual consciousnesses--will flow back to the Whole. That
sounds mystical, but listen.

"We scientists hold that the electron explains nearly all the physical
and chemical phenomena. I go further and say that it explains _all_.
Matter, electricity, light, heat, magnetism--all can be reduced to the
ultimate unit. So, Mr. Oakham, I am going to make clear to you how life
itself is electronic."

His long finger touched Hale's arm. "You, I, yonder mosquito on your
sleeve, even one of the germs that is causing my malaria, all being
individual living things, are the ultimate units of what I shall
personify as the Mind. When I say _you_ I do not speak of that mound of
flesh in which you exist, and which can be reduced to the same familiar
basic elements and compounds as make up inorganic structures; I speak of
your mind, your consciousness--for that is the real you. Are you
following me?"

"Perfectly, Sir Basil." Hale reached for another drink. "But do you
mean to say that you and I are no more than a mosquito, a malaria
protozoan, or even one of those trees in the jungle?"

Sir Basil's dry skin slipped back into a long smile. "Startling,
isn't it? You, I, and all other living organisms are nothing but
matter, energy and consciousness. You and I have a larger share of
consciousness, because our organic structure permits the mind-electrons
greater freedom over the matter than composes our bodies. We are more
acutely aware of the universe about us, have a greater facility for
enjoyment and suffering, a more intricate brain and nervous system.
Yet when our bodies die and our consciousness is released, the
mind-electrons enslaved by our atoms go back to the elemental Whole.
This holds good for the protozoan, the tree, the man--for all things
that live."

       *       *       *       *       *

Hale was drinking again. "You mean, Sir Basil, that there is a sort of
war waged against what you personify as the Mind by matter; that matter
is constantly seeking to enslave mind-electrons, so that it may become
an organism which, for awhile, may enjoy what we call life?"

Sir Basil pushed back his tufted hair and looked happy. "Yes! And it's
Nature's supreme blunder! In the end, the Mind always conquers and gains
its release, yet the eternal chain of enslavement goes on and on, and
will continue to go on as long as there is a living organism in the
world to bind mind to matter."

Hale was excited now, as much from the fiery intoxicant as from the
scientist's weird revelation. "I get you," he said, rather inelegantly
for a professor. "You mean that if every living thing in the world
should pass out, every man, every plant, every animal, even down to
microscopic infusoria, the Mind would collect all its electrons, and
through some more jealous law of, er, cohesion hold these electrons
inviolate from matter and energy?"

"Right! And again, as in the beginning, the Mind would rule supreme. By
what I have proved, you and I and all other creatures that now have life
may, as separate unfleshed electrons, enjoy eternal consciousness as a
part of the Mind." A new passion leaped to his dark eyes. "When I have
finished my mission, no more need we be slaves of the dust, subject to
all the frightful sufferings of this dunghill of flesh."

He brought his fist down upon his skinny leg with a resounding blow.

"But you cannot reduce your theory to fact, Sir Basil!"

"No?" Again came that frightful grin to his cadaverous face. "Can you
withstand shock?"

"If you mean shock to the eye, let me remind you that I served two years
in the big fight."

"Then come to my laboratory. Better take another drink."

While Hale helped himself again from the _masata_ bottle, Sir Basil
swallowed another pellet.

Then the two went into the adjoining apartment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir Basil, his hand over the doorknob, paused.

"Before we go in," he said, "I want you to remember that we call natural
that which is characteristic of the physical world. Everything alive in
this laboratory was produced by nature. I merely made available the
materials, or, rather, I made the conditions under which matter was able
to enslave mind-electrons."

He opened the door, slipped his body through, and, with his ugly,
teeth-revealing grin, gestured for Hale to follow him.

Hale steeled himself and looked around half fearfully. The first glance
took in a large and well-equipped laboratory, somewhat fetid with animal
odors. The second lingered here and there on cages, aquariums,
incubators, and other containers where creatures moved.

Suddenly, as something scuttled across the floor and disappeared into a
hole in the wall, Hale cried out and covered his eyes with a hand.

Sir Basil laughed aloud. "Why didn't you examine it closer?"

Hale looked nauseated. "My God, Sir Basil! A rat with a man's head and
face!"

Sir Basil's voice was sharp, decisive. "Before you leave this
laboratory, you're going to come out of your foolish belief that man is
a creature apart from other living organisms. You--the conscious you--is
no greater, no more important in the final balance than the spark of
consciousness in that rat. When your body and the rat's body give up
their atoms to nature's laboratory, the little enslaved mind-electron
that is you and the one that is the rat will be identical."

Again Hale shivered and turned away from that cold, too-thin face.

The scientist was speaking. "Step around to all those cages and pens. I
want you to see all my slaves of the dust."

       *       *       *       *       *

But long before Hale had encircled the room, he was so disturbed at what
he saw that he could scarcely complete his frightful inspection. In
every enclosure he viewed a monstrosity that in some way resembled a
human. Every reptile, every insect, every queer, misshapen animal not
only looked human in some shocking manner, but also seemed to possess
human characteristics. It seemed as though some demented creator with a
perverted sense of humor had attempted to mock man by calling forth
monsters in his image.

At last the young man cried out: "How did you breed these freaks?"

"They are not freaks, and I did not breed them. They are nature's
parentless products whose basic elements were brought together in
this laboratory, and, by a scientific reproduction of the functions
of creation, endowed with the life principle, which is merely
mind-electrons." He smoothed his long tuft of hair nervously. "Would
you like to see how life springs from a wedding of matter, energy,
and consciousness?"

"I suspect I can stand anything now," Hale admitted.

"Then come and peep into a very remarkable group of apparatus I have
developed, where you can watch atoms building molecules and molecules
building living organisms."

"You say I can see atoms?"

"Not directly, of course. The light waves will forever prevent us from
actually seeing the atom. But I have perfected a system of photography
which magnifies particles smaller than light waves, and, separating
their images from the light waves, renders detail clear in the moving
pictures."

       *       *       *       *       *

He went to a huge machine or series of machines which took up all the
center floor space of the laboratory, where he busied himself in an
intricate network of wires, mirrors, electrodes, ray projectors, and
traveling metal compartments. Presently he called out to Hale.

"Let me remind you, Oakham, that while any scientist can break up any of
the various proteid molecules which are the basis of all living cells,
animal and vegetable, no scientist before me has been able to compound
the atoms and build them into a proteid molecule."

He bared his teeth in the smile that Hale hated.

"I am proud to tell you that the proteid molecule can be built up only
when the third element of nature's trinity is added--the mind-electron.
I have found a means of capturing the mind-electron and of bringing it
in contact with proteid elements. And now it is possible to bring forth
life in the laboratory. Come closer and watch proteid forming
protoplasm, protoplasm forming a cell, and the cell evolving into--well,
what do you want, an animal, plant, or an insect?"

Hale had fallen under the scientist's spell. He did not feel foolish
when he said:

"Let's have a rat!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hale became so absorbed in the wonders of the laboratory that when lunch
time came, Sir Basil had food brought to them. While they were eating a
very good vegetable stew, farina, and luscious tropical fruits, a
sudden, agonized scream rang out, followed by other screams and wails.

Sir Basil opened the door and looked out. AÃ±a came running forward. Her
blue eyes were flooded with tears.

"Oh, Aimu!" she moaned. "A tree fell on Unani Assu."

She buried her beautiful face in her hands and sobbed aloud.

Sir Basil frowned heavily.

"I can't lose Unani Assu yet," he declared. "He is a wonderful help
around the laboratory. Is he dead?"

"No. We should rejoice if his time of release had come. But his legs,
Aimu! No one wants to suffer and be crippled."

Even in her distress, the girl's voice was rich and vibrant, and every
tone moved Hale curiously.

"Hurry!" cried the scientist. "Have them bring him here before he
dies."

The girl leaped to her feet and sped away.

"Come, Oakham," continued Sir Basil. "Here is a rare opportunity for you
to see how completely I have mastered the laws that govern organic
matter. Help me prepare."

       *       *       *       *       *

For several minutes, Hale worked under the scientist's sharply spoken
directions. By the time the injured man was brought to the laboratory,
Sir Basil was ready for him.

Unani Assu was still conscious, but his pale face indicated that he had
lost much blood. When the improvised stretcher was lowered to the floor,
Sir Basil sent all the Indians away.

Unani Assu opened his eyes and called feebly, "AÃ±a!"

"Be still!" ordered Sir Basil. "AÃ±a is not here."

"Please!" gasped the dying man. "I want her--my AÃ±a!"

Sir Basil sucked in his breath sharply. "What's this? Have you been
making love to AÃ±a again, after my warning to you?"

The sufferer stirred uneasily. "No!" he panted. "But perhaps my hour of
release has come, and I want to look at her--once more."

The scientist smiled unpleasantly as he eyed the magnificent body which
looked like a broken statue in bronze.

"Some human characteristics are strange," he muttered. "In spite of
everything I do, this fellow continues to love AÃ±a: AÃ±a whom I intend
for myself."

He stepped to the apparatus and swiftly changed one of the adjustments.

"Perhaps," he resumed, with a gleam in his eyes that chilled Hale, "this
will forever cure him."

       *       *       *       *       *

In another moment, the still, half-dead body was lifted and gently
slipped into a compartment.

Before Hale's horrified gaze fastened on the eye-piece which revealed
moving pictures of every process that went on within, Unani Assu's body
was reduced almost instantly to a fine, silvery dust.

"Good God!" he cried. "You have killed him."

The scientist's teeth showed in his wide smile. "Think so? Does a woman
destroy a dress when she rips it up to make it over?"

"Do you mean me to understand that you can reduce a living body to its
basic elements and then rebuild these elements into a remade man?"

"Watch!" warned the scientist.

Hale looked again and saw the silver dust that was once a living body
being whirled into a tiny, grublike thing. He saw the grub expand into
an embryo, and the embryo develop into a foetus. From now on the
development was slower, and he often stopped to talk with Sir Basil.

Once he asked: "If this man had died naturally, could you have brought
him back to life?"

Sir Basil shook his head. "No. When once the mind-electron is completely
freed from its enslavement by matter, it is forever beyond recall by the
body it has just vacated. Like atomic electrons, whose equilibrium
disturbed break away from their planetary system and go dashing off into
space, only to be drawn into another planetary system, the mind-electron
may be enslaved almost immediately by extraneous matter. Had Unani Assu
died, his liberated mind-electron might at once have been captured by a
jungle flower going to seed. Immediately a new seed would be started.
And now the former Unani Assu would be a seed of a jungle flower, later
to find new life as a plant."

Suddenly the scientist threw up his hand and cried: "You see? The Mind
will be eternally enslaved as long as there is life! Oh, for the time of
deliverance!" He gazed fanatically into space, as though he dreamed
magnificently.

Hale observed him thoughtfully. When that great brain weakened, the
consequences would be frightful.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir Basil, as though he had made a sudden decision, went over to that
part of his machine which he called the molecule-disintegrator.

"Oakham!" he called out. "I have taken you partly into my confidence.
Now I want to show you something. Come here."

Hale obeyed with misgivings. The scientist pointed out the window to a
group of Indians, anxious relatives of Unani Assu.

"Watch!" he ordered.

Turning one of the projectors on the machine toward the window, he
sighted carefully and pressed a button.

Immediately one of the Indians fell to the ground and struggled. His
companions began dancing around him in evident joy. Faintly to the
laboratory came a familiar chant, which Hale recognized as AÃ±a's death
song.

    Dust to dust
    Mind to Mind--
    He will shed his body
    As the green snake sheds his skin.

As Hale watched, the struggling Indian's body seemed to shrink, and
then, instantly, it disappeared.

"Watch them scatter the dust!" said the scientist.

One of the Indians stooped and blew upon the grass.

"What have you done!" Hale gasped. "You've killed this one. Oh, I see
now! These poor devils are totally ignorant that you are killing them
for practice. They worship you while you turn them to--silver dust!" He
turned angrily on the scientist as though he longed to strike him.

"Keep cool, young man!" Sir Basil held up his fleshless hand. "There is
no death! Change, yes; but no permanent blotting out of consciousness.
Can't you see the horror of it as nature works? When your time for
release comes, as it inevitably will, your mind-electron might find new
enslavement in a worm!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Hale's reply came hotly. "If that is true, why do you murder these poor
devils deliberately!"

"My dear Oakham, perhaps you are not so brilliant as I had hoped! All
that I have done thus far is only child's play, in preparation for my
real work. Haven't you guessed by now what I am getting ready to do?"

"No; I'm a poor guesser."

The scientist made a gesture of mock despair. "Then let me tell you. The
molecule-disintegrator is active only on organic structures. When I
concentrate it so"--he reached out again, sighted the projector on some
point beyond the window and pressed a button--"one single living
organism passes out. See that jupati tree by the rock disappear?"

Before Hale's eyes, the tall, slender tree melted into air.

"But," continued Sir Basil, "if I should _broadcast_ my
molecule-disintegrator on electron magnetic waves, destruction would
pass out in all directions, following the curve of the earth's surface,
penetrating earth, air, water." He wet his lips carefully. "You
understand?"

Hale stiffened suddenly. "I understand. No life could survive these
vibrations of destruction? Through every corner of the earth where life
lurks, they would reach?"

"Yes!" cried Sir Basil. "There would be not a blade of grass, not a
living spore, not a hidden egg! Think of it, Oakham! No more would the
clean air and the sweet earth reek with life, and at last the ultimate
mind-electron would be released forever."

He was breathing fast, and his emaciated face burned with two red
spots.

Hale thought rapidly. He was convinced now that the fate of all life lay
within that diabolical network of chemical apparatus.

At last he said: "And what of you and I, Sir Basil? Shall we, too, be
caught in this wholesale destruction?"

"Not immediately," replied the scientist. "Of course, I want to
remain in the flesh long enough to be sure that my purpose has been
accomplished. I have provided a way for my own safety. If you desire,
you may remain with me." He smiled craftily. "I have planned to keep
AÃ±a also, the woman whom I called into life and made as I wished."

       *       *       *       *       *

His words pounded against Hale's tortured ears with almost physical
force. With a supreme effort, the young man controlled his rage and
despair. AÃ±a needed him too much now for him to risk defeat by showing
his emotions.

To Sir Basil he said: "But if all life disappears from the earth, what
shall we do for food--you, AÃ±a, and I?"

Sir Basil lifted his brows. "You don't think I overlooked that, do you?
What is food? Various combinations of the basic elements. I who have
conquered the atom need never worry about starving to death."

All this time, the machinery had been humming, and now the humming
changed its note to a shrill whistle. Sir Basil went to the eye-piece
and looked into it. Opening a door in the machinery, he disappeared
inside. He came out soon, flushed and evidently elated.

"Bring the stretcher, Oakham," he ordered.

Hale brought the stretcher, placing it close to the machine. Then Sir
Basil opened a metal door and gently eased out a human body.

It was Unani Assu, unconscious but alive and breathing. Hale, helping
the scientist to get the man on the stretcher, noticed that the crushed
legs were perfectly healed. Together they bore him to a long seat. The
Indian's eyes were still closed, but his even breathing indicated that
he was only sleeping.

Suddenly Hale pointed a finger and cried out. "My God, Sir Basil, look
at his hands and feet!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Unani Assu, still lying like a recumbent bronze statue sculptured by a
master, was perfect from shoulder to wrist, from thigh to ankle. But,
somewhere in that diabolical machine through which he had passed, his
hands and feet had undergone a hideous metamorphism which had
transformed them from the well-formed extremities of a splendid young
Indian into the hairy paws of a giant rat!

Hale turned away his head, sick with disgust.

Sir Basil cut the silence triumphantly:

"Now he'll never again face AÃ±a with love in his eyes!"

"What!" broke in Hale. "Did you plan this monstrous thing?"

"Of course! I told you I should forever cure him of his mad
infatuation."

"But why didn't you kill him, as you killed the others? It would have
been the most merciful way."

Sir Basil showed his teeth in his ugly smile. "A creator is never
merciful."

A quiver passed through the Indian's body and presently, he sighed
deeply and opened his eyes. He seemed dazed, puzzled. He looked from
Hale to the scientist, and turned seeking eyes to other parts of the
laboratory.

"AÃ±a!" he called weakly. "Where is AÃ±a?"

He pulled himself a little unsteadily to his feet--to the spatulated,
hairy _rodent_ feet that had come out of the life-machine. Staggering,
he would have fallen, had he not thrown out his arm to steady himself.
Instinctively he tried to grasp something for support, and then, for the
first time, he discovered his deformity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hale was never to forget that expression of horror and disgust that
swept over the Indian's face as he spread open his revolting extremities
and stared at them.

A sudden, wild roar of despair rang through the room. "Aimu! My hands!"

The scientist smiled with evident amusement. "You are a grotesque sight,
Unani Assu. Do you want to see AÃ±a now?"

The fright and horror faded from the Indian's face, for now he glared
with hate into the mad, mocking eyes.

"You did it!" the Indian ground out. "You've made me into a thing from
which AÃ±a will run screaming."

Through the quiet rage of the perfectly spoken English ran a thread of
sorrow. "Aimu, whom we considered too holy to name!"

Choking, he hobbled away to the door, which he unbolted. As he passed
out into the open, Sir Basil went over to the machine and began sighting
the projector which cast forth the ray of destruction.

"No!" cried Hale. "You've done enough murder for to-day."

The scientist paused. "I was trying to be merciful. And then, I wonder
if it is safe to let him go, hating me? Oh, well!" He shrugged his
narrow shoulders. "I seldom leave the laboratory, and certainly nothing
can harm me here." He touched the death-projector significantly.

Hale made a mental decision. "I must find out how the damned thing works
and put it out of commission."

       *       *       *       *       *

With this determination uppermost in his mind, he assumed a more intense
interest in the strange laboratory. For the next two days, he assisted
Sir Basil so assiduously that he learned much about the operation of the
life-machine. And gradually he stopped being horrified as the
fascination of producing life in the laboratory grew upon him.

After he had assisted the scientist in building living organisms from
basic elements, he ceased to cringe when he remembered that perhaps it
was true that AÃ±a was created in the mysterious life-machine.

Once the scientist declared, "She is untainted with inheritance. She is
the perfect mate that I called into life so that before I pass from the
flesh I may taste that one human emotion I've never experienced--love."

That very night Hale kept a secret tryst with AÃ±a after the village
slept. Sweet, virginal AÃ±a, who knew less of the world than a civilized
child of twelve--what a sensation she would create in New York with her
beauty, her culture, her natural fascination! With her in his arms and
an orange tropical moon hanging low in the hot, black sky, he ceased to
care that she had no ancestors, for now his one passionate desire was to
save her from Sir Basil and to hold her forever for himself.

He might have been content to go on like this for months, tampering with
creation in the day time, courting AÃ±a in secret at night, had not Unani
Assu come back for revenge.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the fourth night after Unani Assu had disappeared into the jungle,
Hale went to the _igarapÃ©_ to meet AÃ±a. He had gone only half the
distance when he encountered her, running frantically up the path toward
him.

"Hale!" she gasped, falling into his opened arms, where she lay panting
and exhausted.

Hale gently patted the long braids, shimmering in silver tangles under
the moonlight, and, crushing the soft little trembling body close, he
murmured:

"What's the matter, darling?"

She dug her face deeper into the bend of his arm. "Oh, Hale! I saw Unani
Assu a few minutes ago." For several moments she was unable to go on,
for sudden sobs cut off her breath. "It's terrible, Hale, what Aimu did
to his hands and feet, but what Unani's going to do to Aimu is still
more terrible."

Hale placed his hand gently under her chin and tilted up her small,
pale, tear-drenched face.

"Be calm, AÃ±a, and tell me plainly."

Still clinging to him, she went on. "He told me that Aimu is a devil,
Hale. He showed me his hands and asked me if I could ever get used to
them and be--his squaw." The round gold breastplates and the necklace of
painted seeds clinked together over her panting bosom. "I told him about
you, Hale. And then he seemed to go mad. He said he'd kill Aimu
to-night."

"But, AÃ±a! Why did he let you go, knowing that you would give the
alarm?"

"He didn't let me go." Her petaled lips parted in a faint smile. "I
escaped. Unani Assu tied me to a tree by the _igarapÃ©_. Because he
doesn't ... hate me, he could not bear to tie me too tightly."

"Then he must be close to the laboratory now. If he breaks in upon
Aimu--oh, my God!"

Hale remembered the death-projector. If Sir Basil were in danger of
attack, he would not hesitate to touch the waiting button that would
broadcast death throughout the world.

He seized AÃ±a's little hand and cried out: "Run, AÃ±a! The only safe
place now is Aimu's laboratory. Run!"

       *       *       *       *       *

As they dashed on madly, Hale opened wide his nostrils to scent the
heavy, flower-laden air of the jungle. Any moment all this sweet, rich
life might vanish instantly. He had a horrible vision of a world devoid
of life, a world of bare rocks, dry sand, odorless, dead waters. For it
was life that greened the landscape, roughened the stones with moss and
lichen, thickened the ocean with ooze, and turned the dry sand into
loam--life that swarmed underfoot, overhead, all around!

And now, just as they reached the laboratory door, panting and frantic,
a hoarse shriek broke forth. Dragging AÃ±a after him, Hale dashed
forward, conscious of two masculine voices raised in passion.

The door to the room where the life-machine performed its vile work was
locked. Hale pounded against it and called out to Sir Basil, but only
curses and the sound of tumbling bodies came from beyond the door.
Although originally the door had been thick and strong, the destructive
forces of the tropics had pitted and rotted the wood. A few blows of
Hale's shoulder broke it down.

Under the brilliant electric light, Sir Basil and Unani Assu were
fighting upon the blood-spattered floor. The struggle was uneven: the
scientist's emaciated body was no match for the splendid strength of the
young Indian.

"Help Aimu!" cried AÃ±a, pushing Hale forward.

Aimu was being choked to death.

Hale acted fantastically but efficiently. Catching up a bottle of
ammonia, he moistened a handkerchief and clapped it against Unani Assu's
nose. Instantly the Indian choked, released Sir Basil, and fell back,
gasping for breath.

Hale thrust the handkerchief into his pocket.

"Get out!" he ordered Unani Assu. "Quick!" He threatened him with the
ammonia bottle.

But Unani Assu was not looking at the bottle. "Aimu!" he screamed,
pointing.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Hale saw and understood, he leaped across the room to plant his
body in front of AÃ±a; for Sir Basil was behind the life-machine,
reaching for the controls of the ray projector.

Suddenly, from behind Hale, a silver streak shot across the room. Sir
Basil groaned and sank to the floor of the laboratory.

A keen-bladed dissecting knife, thrown by AÃ±a, stuck out from his left
breast.

AÃ±a ran forward, sobbing wildly. "Oh, Aimu! I'm sorry! I didn't mean for
it to strike you there. Only your hand, Aimu! I didn't want Hale to die,
Aimu. I didn't--oh!"

She was on her knees by the scientist's side, his head held in her
slender arms.

"He's breathing!" she rejoiced. "Some _masata_, Hale, quick!"

Hale found a bottle of good brandy which he had contributed from his own
supplies. Soon Sir Basil gasped and opened his eyes. He stared about him
wildly, then gasped:

"I'm dying, Hale Oakham! Quick, the life-machine, before my mind-electron
escapes."

He tried to pull his body up, but fell back, weak and panting.

Hale hesitated, looking doubtfully at AÃ±a.

"For God's sake, quick!" screamed Sir Basil. "I'm dying, I say! I must
have--rebirth. Lift me to the disintegrator. Hurry!..." His voice
trailed off faintly.

"He is dying," snapped Hale. "We might as well try it." He jerked open
the door to the disintegrator. "Here, Unani Assu! Lend a hand!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Instantly the Indian came forward, a peculiar, pleased expression on his
handsome face. In a moment, Sir Basil's body was inside, and the machine
began its weird humming, the humming that indicated the transformation
of a human body into dust.

"Now!" cried Unani Assu exultingly, going behind the machine. "I have
helped him enough to understand that if one changes this--and this--and
this"--he made some rapid adjustments on the machine--"something that is
not pleasant will happen."

"Stop!" cried Hale. "What did you change?"

The Indian laughed mockingly. "Wouldn't you like to know? But, yet, you
should not worry. You have no cause to love him, have you?"

"I can't be a traitor, Unani Assu! Arrange the machine as it was
originally, and I give you my word of honor than when Sir Basil comes
out, I'll wreck the damned thing beyond repair. See, Unani Assu? You and
I together will smash it."

The Indian folded his arms so that the repulsive things that should have
been hands were hidden.

"It's too late now," he admitted, shaking his head. "Yet I've done no
more to him than he did to me."

Hale went to the eye-piece in the machine and started to look inside.
Unani Assu stepped forward, tapped him on the shoulder, and, fingering
significantly the dissecting knife which he had picked up, said:

"I am operating the machine. Will you sit over there by AÃ±a and wait? It
won't be long. And, white stranger, remember this: I am your friend. I
am turned against none but our common enemy." He pointed significantly
to the machine.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two hours passed, long, silent hours for the watchers in the laboratory.
AÃ±a fell asleep, in a sweet, childish bundle upon the piled cushions,
her golden hair, still decorated with the red flowers which she always
wore, crushed and withered now. Several times Hale caught Unani Assu
gazing at her sadly, and his own look saddened when it rested on the
Indian's strong, outraged body.

The humming of the machine changed to a whistle. Placing his fingers on
his lips in a signal of quiet, Unani Assu whispered:

"Let AÃ±a sleep. She mustn't see this."

Opening a door in the machine, his handsome face lighted with a grim
smile, he whispered exultingly:

"Watch!"

A scuttling sound issued forth and then, half drunkenly, an enormous rat
tumbled out--one of those horrible rats with the hairless, humanlike
faces that had so frequently come from the life-machine.

Hale could not crush back the cry that issued from his throat.

"Where is Sir Basil?" he gasped.

"There!" cried the Indian, pointing to the kicking rat, which was fast
gaining strength.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hale staggered back. "No! You don't mean it, do you?"

Unani Assu turned the rat over with a contemptuous toe. "Yes, I mean it.
Behold Aimu, the man who thought himself creator and destroyer--the man
who said that a human being was no higher than a rat! Perhaps he was
right, for see this thing that was once a man!"

Hale buried his face in his hands. "Kill it, Unani Assu! Kill it!"

Unani Assu's low laugh was metallic. "You kill it."

Hale uncovered his face. "Open the disintegrator." Gingerly he reached
for the rat's tail.

But his hand never touched the animal. The hairless face turned for a
second, and the little, beady eyes blinked up at Hale with an expression
that his fevered imagination thought almost human. Then, like a dark
shadow, the rat dashed away. Once around the room it scampered, hunting
for an exit. Hale started in pursuit. He was almost upon the animal
again, when, leaping up from his grasp, it landed on a low shelf where
chemicals were stored. Several bottles fell, filling the room with
fumes.

Another bottle fell, and, suddenly, amid a thunderous roar, the ceiling
and walls began falling. Some highly explosive chemical had been stored
in one of the bottles.

Hale was thrown violently against the couch. His hand touched AÃ±a's
body. One last shred of consciousness enabled him to pick her up and
drag her out. In the open, he fell, aware, before blackness descended,
that flames leaped high over the laboratory building and that Unani Assu
lay dead within.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hale and AÃ±a, leaning over the deck-rail of a small steam launch, gazed
into the dark waters of the Amazon.

"We ought to reach Para by morning," said Hale, "and then, dearest,
we're off for New York!"

AÃ±a, wearing one of the first civilized dresses she had ever donned, and
looking as smart as any dÃ©butante, slipped her little hand into her
husband's.

"Isn't it a shame, Hale," she moaned, "that the fire burned all the
animals and insects, the machinery, and even your notes?" Her beautiful
face saddened. "Just one or two specimens might have been proof enough
for your What-You-Call-It Club!"

"The Nescience Club, darling. No, I can't expect to win the Woolman
prize, but I've won a prize worth far more." He squeezed her little hand
and looked devotedly into her blue eyes. "And, AÃ±a, I've reasoned out
something concerning mind-electrons which even Sir Basil overlooked."

"What is it, Hale?"

"He maintained that matter seeks always to enslave mind-electrons, but I
am convinced that mind-electrons seek to enslave matter. Understand?
It's creation, AÃ±a! Had Sir Basil succeeded in broadcasting death
throughout the world, the freed mind-electrons, as in the beginning,
would have started again to vitalize inorganic atoms. And, in a few
million years, which is no time to the Mind, the world would be humming
with a new civilization. Large thought, eh, sweetheart?"




A SIGNAL TO THE MOON

The idea of a radio signal to the moon may sound fantastic, but is
easily within the range of possibility, says Dr. A. Hoyt Taylor, Chief
of the Radio Division of the United States Naval Research Laboratories
at Washington, who plans such an attempt in the near future.

"We have reason to expect a good chance of getting the signal back in a
time interval of slightly less than three seconds," said Dr. Taylor.

To be exact, a radio signal should be reflected back to earth in a time
interval of 2.8 seconds, this being the necessary elapsed time for it to
carry the 250,000 miles to the moon and return at its speed of 300,000
kilometers, or 186,000 miles per second.

The signal would be very weak, Dr. Taylor points out, but not impossible
of detection with the present refinement of receiving instruments,
provided no great absorption took place in interstellar space.

A high frequency wave will be used, as such a wave penetrates readily
the earth's atmosphere and probably goes far beyond. The frequency of
the wave will range between 20,000 and 30,000 kilocycles. Twenty
kilowats of power will be used, enough to furnish current for about
forty flatirons.

The value of a radio signal to the moon lies in the confirmation of
whether there is or not heavy absorption of waves in the upper levels of
our own atmosphere. If successful it would indicate a reasonably good
reflection coefficient at the surface of the moon--the power of the
moon's surface to act as a joint agent in the perfection of the signal.

The signal might have some bearing also on whether the moon has an
atmosphere--something pretty much settled already by astronomical
observation. It would also lead to the possibility of fairly accurate
determination of wave velocity in free space, all of interest to
science, either confirming existing theories or establishing new ones.




The Pirate Planet

PART TWO OF A FOUR-PART NOVEL

_By Charles W. Diffin_

  It is war. Interplanetary war. And on far distant Venus two
  fighting Earthlings stand up against a whole planet run amuck.


WHAT HAS GONE BEFORE

A flash of light on Venus!--and at Maricopa Flying Field Lieutenant
McGuire and Captain Blake laugh at its possible meaning until the
radio's weird call and the sight of a giant ship in the night sky prove
their wildest thoughts are facts. "Big as an ocean liner," it hangs in
midair, then turns and shoots upward at incredible speed until it
disappears entirely, in space!

McGuire goes to Mount Lawson observatory, and there he sees the flash on
Venus repeated. Professor Sykes, who had observed the first flash,
confirms it and sees still more. He sees the enveloping clouds of Venus
torn asunder, and beneath them an identifying mark, a continent shaped
like the letter "L."

And then the great ship comes again. It hovers above the observatory and
settles slowly down.

[Illustration: "Hold them off as long as you can!"]

Back at Maricopa Field, Captain Blake has tested a new plane for
altitude, and is now prepared to interview the stranger in the higher
levels. McGuire's frantic phone call sends him out into the night with
the 91st Squadron of planes in support. It is their last flight, for all
but Blake. The invader smothers them in a great sphere of gas, but
Blake, with his oxygen flasks, flies through to crash beside the
observatory. Only Blake survives to see the enemy land, while strange
man-shapes loot the buildings and carry off McGuire and Sykes.

A bombardment with giant shells dispels the last doubt of the earth
being under attack. The flashes from Venus at regular intervals spout
death and destruction upon the earth; a mammoth gun, sunk into the
planet itself, bears once upon the earth at every revolution, until the
changing position of the globes take the target out of range.

In less than a year and a half the planets must meet again. It is war to
the death; a united world against an enemy unknown--an enemy who has
conquered space. And there is less than a year and a half in which to
prepare!

Far out in the blackness of space McGuire and Sykes are captives in the
giant ship. Their stupor leaves them; they find themselves immersed in
clouds. The clouds part; their ship drops through; and below them is a
strange continent shaped like the letter "L." Captives of inhuman but
man-shaped things, they are landing upon a strange globe--upon the
planet Venus itself!


CHAPTER VIII

Miles underneath the great ship, from which Lieutenant McGuire and
Professor Sykes were now watching through a floor-window of thick glass,
was a glittering expanse of water--a great ocean. The flickering gold
expanse that reflected back the color of the sunlit clouds passed to one
side as the ship took its station above the island, a continent in size,
that had shown by its shape like a sharply formed "L" an identifying
mark to the astronomer.

They were high in the air; the thick clouds that surrounded this new
world were miles from its surface, and the things of the world that
awaited were tiny and blurred.

Airships passed and repassed far below. Large, some of them--as bulky
as the transport they were on; others were small flashing cylinders, but
all went swiftly on their way.

It must have come--some ethereal vibration to warn others from the
path--for layer after layer of craft were cleared for the descent. A
brilliant light flashed into view, a dazzling pin-point on the shore
below, and the great ship fell suddenly beneath them. Swiftly it dropped
down the pathway of light; on even keel it fell down and still down,
till McGuire, despite his experience in the air, was sick and giddy.

The light blinked out at their approach. It was some minutes before the
watching eyes recovered from the brilliance to see what mysteries might
await, and then the surface was close and the range of vision small.

A vast open space--a great court paved with blocks of black and white--a
landing field, perhaps, for about it in regular spacing other huge
cylinders were moored. Directly beneath in a clear space was a giant
cradle of curved arms; it was a mammoth structure, and the men knew at a
glance that this was the bed where their great ship would lie.

       *       *       *       *       *

The smooth pavement seemed slowly rising to meet them as their ship
settled close. Now the cradle was below, its arms curved and waiting.
The ship entered their grasp, and the arms widened, then closed to draw
the monster to its rest. Their motion ceased. They were finally, beyond
the last faint doubt, at anchor on a distant world.

A shrill cackle of sound recalled them from the thrill of this
adventure, and the attenuated and lanky figure, with its ashen,
blotchy face that glared at them from the doorway, reminded them that
this excursion into space was none of their desire. They were
prisoners--captives from a foreign land.

A long hand moved its sinuous fingers to motion them to follow, and
McGuire regarded his companion with a hopeless look and a despondent
shrug of his shoulders.

"No use putting up a fight," he said; "I guess we'd better be good."

He followed where the figure was stepping through a doorway into a
corridor beyond. They moved, silent and depressed, along the dimly
lighted way; the touch of cold metal walls was as chilling to their
spirits as to their flesh.

But the mood could not last: the first ray of light from the outside
world sent shivers of anticipation along their spines. They were
landing, in very fact, upon a new world; their feet were to walk where
never man had stood; their eyes would see what mortal eyes had never
visioned.

Fears were forgotten, and the men clung to each other not for the human
touch but because of an ecstasy of intoxicating, soul-filling joy in the
sheer thrill of adventure.

They were gripping each other's hand, round-eyed as a couple of
children, as they stepped forward into the light.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before them was a scene whose blazing beauty of color struck them to
frozen silence; their exclamations of wonder died unspoken on their
lips. They were in a city of the stars, and to their eyes it seemed as
if all the brilliance of the heavens had been gathered for its
building.

The spacious, open court itself stood high in the air among the masses
of masonry, and beyond were countless structures. Some towered skyward;
others were lower; and all were topped with bulbous towers and graceful
minarets that made a forest of gleaming opal light. Opalescence
everywhere!--it flashed in red and gold and delicate blues from every
wall and cornice and roof.

"Quartz?" marveled Sykes after one long drawn breath. "Quartz or
glass?--what are they made of? It is fairyland!"

A jewelled city! Garish, it might have been, and tawdry, in the full
light of the sun. But on these weirdly unreal structures the sun's rays
never shone; they were illumined only by the soft golden glow that
diffused across this world from the cloud masses far above.

McGuire looked up at that uniform, glowing, golden mass that paled
toward the horizon and faded to the gray of banked clouds. His eyes came
slowly back to the ramp that led downward to the checkered black and
white of the court. Beyond an open portion the pavement was solidly
massed with people.

"People!--we might as well call them that," McGuire had told Sykes;
"they are people of a sort, I suppose. We'll have to give them credit
for brains: they've beaten us a hundred years in their inventions."

He was trying to see everything, understand everything, at once. There
was not time to single out the new impressions that were crowding upon
him. The air--it was warm to the point of discomfort; it explained the
loose, light garments of the people; it came to the two men laden with
strange scents and stranger sounds.

McGuire's eyes held with hungry curiosity upon the dwellers in this
other world; he stared at the gaping throng from which came a bedlam of
shrill cries. Lean colorless hands gesticulated wildly and pointed with
long fingers at the two men.

       *       *       *       *       *

The din ceased abruptly at a sharp, whistled order from their captor. He
stood aside with a guard that had followed from the ship, and he
motioned the two before him down the gangway. It was the same scarlet
one who had faced them before, the one whom McGuire had attacked in a
frenzy of furious fighting, only to go down to blackness and defeat
before the slim cylinder of steel and its hissing gas. And the slanting
eyes stared wickedly in cold triumph as he ordered them to go before
him in his march of victory.

McGuire passed down toward the masses of color that were the ones who
waited. There were many in the dull red of the ship's crew; others in
sky-blue, in gold and pink and combinations of brilliance that blended
their loose garments to kaleidoscopic hues. But the figures were similar
in one unvarying respect: they were repulsive and ghastly, and their
faces showed bright blotches of blood vessels and blue markings of veins
through their parchment-gray skins.

The crowd parted to a narrow, living lane, and lean fingers clutched
writhingly to touch them as they passed between the solid ranks.

McGuire had only a vague impression of a great building beyond, of lower
stories decorated in barbaric colors, of towers above in strange forms
of the crystal, colorful beauty they had seen. He walked toward it
unseeing; his thoughts were only of the creatures round about.

"What damned beasts!" he said. Then, like his companion, he set his
teeth to restrain all show of feeling as they made their way through the
lane of incredible living things.

       *       *       *       *       *

They followed their captor through a doorway into an empty room--empty
save for one blue-clad individual who stood beside an instrument board
let into the wall. Beyond was a long wall, where circular openings
yawned huge and black.

The one at the instrument panel received a curt order: the weird voice
of the man in red repeated a word that stood out above his curious,
wordless tone. "Torg," he said, and again McGuire heard him repeat the
syllable.

The operator touched here and there among his instruments, and tiny
lights flashed; he threw a switch, and from one of the black openings
like a deep cave came a rushing roar of sound. It dropped to silence as
the end of a cylindrical car protruded into the room. A door in the
metal car opened, and their guard hustled them roughly inside. The one
in red followed while behind him the door clanged shut.

Inside the car was light, a diffused radiance from no apparent source,
the whole air was glowing about them. And beneath their feet the car
moved slowly but with a constant acceleration that built up to
tremendous speed. Then that slackened, and Sykes and McGuire clung to
each other for support while the car that had been shot like a
projectile came to rest.

"Whew!" breathed the lieutenant; "that was quick delivery." Sykes made
no reply, and McGuire, too, fell silent to study the tremendous room
into which they were led. Here, seemingly, was the stage for their next
experience.

A vast open hall with a floor of glass that was like obsidion, empty but
for carved benches about the walls; there was room here for a mighty
concourse of people. The walls, like those they had seen, were decorated
crudely in glaring colors, and embellished with grotesque designs that
proclaimed loudly the inexpert touch of the draughtsman. Yet, above
them, the ceiling sprang lightly into vaulted, sweeping curves.
McGuire's training had held little of architecture, yet even he felt the
beauty of line and airy gracefulness of treatment in the structure
itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

The contrast between the flaunting colors and the finished artistry that
lay beneath must have struck a discordant note to the scientist. He
leaned closer to whisper.

"It is all wrong some way--the whole world! Beauty and refinement--then
crude vulgarity, as incongruous as the people themselves--they do not
belong here."

"Neither do we," was McGuire's reply; "it looks like a tough spot that
we're in."

He was watching toward a high, arched entrance across the room. A
platform before it was raised some six feet above the floor, and on
this were seats--ornate chairs, done in sweeping scrolls of scarlet and
gold. A massive seat in the center was like the fantastic throne of a
child's fairy tale. From the corridor beyond that entrance came a stir
and rustling that rivetted the man's attention.

A trumpet peal, vibrant and peculiar, blared forth from the ceiling
overhead, and the red figures of the guards stood at rigid attention
with lean arms held stiffly before them. The one in scarlet took the
same attitude, then dropped his hands to motion the two men to give the
same salute.

"You go to hell," said Lieutenant McGuire in his gentlest tones. And the
scarlet figure's thin lips were snarling as he turned to whip his arms
up to their position. The first of a procession of figures was entering
through the arch.

Sykes, the scientist, was paying little attention. "It isn't true," he
was muttering aloud; "it can't be true. Venus! Twenty-six million miles
at inferior conjunction!"

He seemed lost in silent communion with his own thoughts; then: "But
I said there was every probability of life; I pointed out the
similarities--"

"Hush!" warned McGuire. The eyes of the scarlet man were sending wicked
looks in their direction. Tall forms were advancing through the arch.
They, too, were robed in scarlet, and behind them others followed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The trumpet peal from the dome above held now on a long-drawn, single
note, while the scarlet men strode in silence across the dais and parted
to form two lines. An inverted "V" that faced the entrance--they were an
assembly of rigid, blazing statues whose arms were extended like those
on the floor below.

The vibrant tone from on high changed to a crashing blare that shrieked
discordantly to send quivering protest through every nerve of the
waiting men. Those about them were shouting, and again the name of Torg
was heard, as, in the high arch, another character appeared to play his
part in a strange drama.

Thin like his companions, yet even taller than them, he wore the same
brilliant robes and, an additional mark of distinction, a head-dress of
polished gold. He acknowledged the salute with a quick raising of his
own arms, then came swiftly forward and took his place upon the massive
throne.

Not till he was seated did the others on the platform relax their rigid
pose and seat themselves in the semicircle of chairs. And not till then
did they so much as glance at the men waiting there before them--the two
Earth-men, standing in silent, impassive contemplation of the brilliant
scene and with their arms held quiet at their sides. Then every eye
turned full upon the captives, and if McGuire had seen deadly
malevolence in the face of their captor he found it a hundred-fold in
the inhuman faces that looked down upon them now.

The inquiring mind of Professor Sykes did not fail to note the
character of their reception. "But why," he asked in whispers of his
fellow-prisoner, "--why this open hatred of us? What possible animus
can they have against the earth or its people?"

The figure on the throne voiced a curt order; the one who had brought
them stepped forward. His voice was raised in the same discordant,
singing tone that leaped and wandered from note to note. It conveyed
ideas--that was apparent; it was a language that he spoke. And the
central figure above nodded a brief assent as he finished.

Their captor took an arm of each in his long fingers and pushed them
roughly forward to stand alone before the battery of hard eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now the crowned figure addressed them directly. His voice quavered
sharply in what seemed an interrogation. The men looked blankly at each
other.

Again the voice questioned them impatiently. Sykes and McGuire were
silent. Then the young flyer took an involuntary step forward and looked
squarely at the owner of the harsh voice.

"We don't know what you are saying," he began, "and I suppose that our
lingo makes no sense to you--" He paused in helpless wonderment as to
what he could say. Then--

"But what the devil is it all about?" he demanded explosively. "Why all
the dirty looks? You've got us here as prisoners--now what do you expect
us to do? Whatever it is, you'll have to quit singing it and talk
something we can understand."

He knew his words were useless, but this reception was getting on his
nerves--and his arm still tingled where the scarlet one had gripped
him.

It seemed, though, that his meaning was not entirely lost. His words
meant nothing to them, but his tone must have carried its own message.
There were sharp exclamations from the seated circle. The one who had
brought them sprang forward with outstretched, clutching hands; his face
was a blood-red blotch. McGuire was waiting in crouching tenseness that
made the red one pause.

"You touch me again," said the waiting man, "and I'll knock you into an
outside loop."

The attacker's indecision was ended by a loud order from above. McGuire
turned as if he had been spoken to by the leader on the throne. The thin
figure was leaning far forward; his eye were boring into those of the
lieutenant, and he held the motionless pose for many minutes. To the
angry man, staring back and upward, there came a peculiar optical
illusion.

The evil face was vanishing in a shifting cloud that dissolved and
reformed, as he watched, into pictures. He knew it was not there, the
thing he saw; he knew he was regarding something as intangible as
thought; but he got the significance of every detail.

He saw himself and Professor Sykes; they were being crushed like ants
beneath a tremendous heel; he knew that the foot that could grind out
their lives was that of the one on the throne.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cloud-stuff melted to new forms that grew clearer to show him the
earth. A distorted Earth--and he knew the distortion came from the mind
of the being before him who had never seen the earth at first hand; yet
he knew it for his own world. It was turning in space; he saw oceans and
continents; and before his mental gaze he saw the land swarming with
these creatures of Venus. The one before him was in command; he was
seated on an enormous throne; there were Earth people like Sykes and
himself who crept humbly before him, while fleets of great Venusian
ships hovered overhead.

The message was plain--plain as if written in words of fire in the brain
of the man. McGuire knew that these creatures intended that the vision
should be true--they meant to conquer the earth. The slim, khaki-clad
figure of Lieutenant McGuire quivered with the strength of his refusal
to accept the truth of what he saw. He shook his head to clear it of
these thought wraiths.

"Not--in--a--million--years!" he said, and he put behind his words all
the mental force at his command. "Try that, old top, and they'll give
you the fight of your life--" He checked his words as he saw plainly
that the thin cruel face that stared and stared was getting nothing from
his reply.

"Now what do you think about that?" he demanded of Professor Sykes. "He
got an idea across to me--some form of telepathy. I saw his mind, or I
saw what he wanted me to see of it. It's taps, he says, for us, and then
they think they're going across and annex the world."

He glanced upward again and laughed loudly for the benefit of those who
were watching him so closely. "Fine chance!" he said; "a fat chance!"
But in the deeper recesses of his mind he was shaken.

For themselves there was no hope. Well, that was all in a lifetime. But
the other--the conquest of the earth--he had to try with all his power
of will to keep from his mind the pictures of destruction these beastly
things could bring about.

       *       *       *       *       *

The chief of this strange council made a gesture of contempt with the
grotesque hands that were so translucent yet ashy-pale against his
scarlet robe, and the down-drawn thin lips reflected the thoughts that
prompted it. The open opposition of Lieutenant McGuire failed to impress
him, it seemed. At a word the one who had brought them sprang forward.

He addressed himself to the circle of men, and he harangued them
mightily in harsh discordance. He pointed one lean hand at the two
captives, then beat it upon his own chest. "They are mine," he was
saying, as the men knew plainly. And they realized as if the weird talk
came like words to their ears that this monster was demanding that the
captives be given him.

An exchange of dismayed glances, and "Not so good!" said McGuire under
his breath; "Simon Legree is asking for his slaves. Mean, ugly devil,
that boy!"

The lean figures on the platform were bending forward, an expression of
mirth--distorted, animal smiles--upon their flabby lips. They
represented to the humans, so helpless before them, a race of thinking
things in whom no last vestige of kindness or decency remained. But was
there an exception? One of the circle was standing; the one beside them
was sullenly silent as the other on the platform addressed their ruler.

He spoke at some length, not with the fire and vehemence of the one who
had claimed them, but more quietly and dispassionately, and his cold
eyes, when they rested on those of McGuire and Sykes, seemed more
crafty than actively ablaze with malevolent ill-will. Plainly it was the
councilor now, addressing his superior. His inhuman voice was silenced
by a reply from the one on the throne.

He motioned--this gold-crowned figure of personified evil--toward the
two men, and his hand swept on toward the one who had spoken. He intoned
a command in harsh gutturals that ended in a sibilant shriek. And the
two standing silent and hopeless exchanged looks of despair.

They were being delivered to this other--that much was plain--but that
it boded anything but captivity and torment they could not believe. That
last phrase was too eloquent of hissing hate.

       *       *       *       *       *

The creature rose, tall and ungainly, from his throne; amid the
salutations of his followers he turned and vanished through the arch.
The others of his council followed, all but the one. He motioned to the
two men to come with him, and the sullen one who had demanded the men
for himself obeyed an order from this councilor who was his superior.

He snapped an order, and four of his men ranged themselves about the
captives as a guard. Thin metal cords were whipped about the wrists of
each; their hands were tied. The wire cut like a knife-edge if they
strained against it.

The new director of their destinies was vanishing through an exit at one
side of the great hall; their guard hustled them after. A corridor
opened before them to end in a gold-lit portal; it was daylight out
beyond where a street was filled with hurrying figures in many colors.
With quavering shrieks they scattered like frightened fowls as an
airship descended between the tall buildings that reflected its passing
in opalescent hues.

It was a small craft compared with the one that had brought them, and
it swept down to settle lightly upon the street with no least regard
for those who might be crushed by its descent. Consideration for their
fellows did not appear as a marked characteristic of this strange
people, McGuire observed thoughtfully. They swarmed in endless droves,
these multicolored beings who made of the thoroughfare an ever-changing
kaleidoscope--and what was a life or two, more or less, among so many?
He found no comfort for themselves in the thought.

Shoulder to shoulder, the two followed where the scarlet figure of the
councilor moved toward the waiting ship. Only the professor paid further
heed to their surroundings; he marveled aloud at the numbers of the
people.

"Hundreds of them," he said; "thousands! They are swarming everywhere
like rats. Horrible!" His eyes passed on to the buildings in their glory
of delicate hues, as he added, "And the contrast they make with their
surroundings! It is all wrong some way; I wish I knew--"

They were in the ship when McGuire replied. "I hope we live long enough
to satisfy your curiosity," he said grimly.

The ship was rising beneath them; the opal and quartz of the city's
walls were flashing swiftly down.


CHAPTER IX

They were in a cabin at the very nose of the ship, seated on metal
chairs, their hands unshackled and free. Their scarlet guardian reclined
at ease somewhat to one side, but despite his apparent disregard his
cold eyes seldom left the faces of the two men.

Windows closed them in; windows on each side, in front, above them, and
even in the floor beneath. It was a room for observation whose
metal-latticed walls served only as a framework for the glass. And there
was much to be observed.

The golden radiance of sunlit clouds was warm above. They rose toward
it, until, high over the buildings' tallest spires, there spread on
every hand the bewildering beauty of that forest of minarets and sloping
roofs and towers, whose many facets made glorious blendings of soft
color. Aircraft at many levels swept in uniform directions throughout
the sky. The ship they were in hung quiet for a time, then rose to a
higher level to join the current of transportation that flowed into the
south.

"We will call it south," said Professor Sykes. "The sun-glow, you will
observe, is not directly overhead; the sun is sinking; it is past their
noon. What is the length of their day? Ah, this interesting--interesting!"
The certain fate they had foreseen was forgotten; it is not often given to
an astronomer to check at first hand his own indefinite observations.

"Look!" McGuire exclaimed. "Open country! The city is ending!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ahead and below them the buildings were smaller and scattered. Their new
master was watching with closest scrutiny the excitement of the men; he
whispered an order into a nearby tube, and the ship slowly slanted
toward the ground. He was studying these new specimens, as McGuire
observed, but the lieutenant paid little attention; his eyes were too
thoroughly occupied in resolving into recognizable units the picture
that flowed past them so quickly. He was accustomed, this pilot of the
army air service, to reading clearly the map that spreads beneath a
plane, but now he was looking at an unfamiliar chart.

"Fields," he said, and pointed to squared areas of pale reds and blues;
"though what it is, heaven knows. And the trees!--if that's what they
are." The ship went downward where an area of tropical denseness made a
tangled mass of color and shadow.

"Trees!" Lieutenant McGuire had exclaimed, but these forests were of
tree-forms in weirdest shapes and hues. They grew to towering heights,
and their branches and leaves that swayed and dipped in the slow-moving
air were of delicate pastel shades.

"No sunlight," said the Professor excitedly; "they have no direct rays
of the sun. The clouds act as a screen and filter out actinic rays."

McGuire did not reply. He was watching the countless dots of color that
were people--people who swarmed here as they had in the city; people
working at these great groves, crouching lower in the fields as the ship
swept close; people everywhere in teeming thousands. And like the
vegetation about them, they, too, were tall and thin, attenuated of form
and with skin like blood-stained ash.

"They need the sun," Sykes was repeating; "both vegetable and animal
life. The plants are deficient in chlorophyl--see the pale green of the
leaves!--and the people need vitamines. Yet they evidently have electric
power in abundance. I could tell them of lamps--"

       *       *       *       *       *

His comments ceased as McGuire lurched heavily against him. The flyer
had taken note of the tense, attentive attitude of the one in scarlet;
the man was leaning forward, his eyes focused directly upon the
scientist's face; he seemed absorbing both words and emotions.

How much could he comprehend? What power had he to vision the
idea-pictures in the other's mind? McGuire could not know. But "Sorry!"
he told Sykes; "that was clumsy of me." And he added in a whisper, "Keep
your thoughts to yourself; I think this bird is getting them."

Buildings flashed under them, not massed solidly as in the city, yet
spaced close to one another as if every foot of ground not devoted to
their incredible agriculture were needed to house the inhabitants. The
ground about them was alive with an equally incredible humanity that
swarmed over all this world in appalling profusion.

Their horrid flesh! Their hideous features! And their number! McGuire
had a sudden, sickening thought. They were larvae, these crawling
hordes--vile worm-things that infested a beautiful world--that bred here
in millions, their numbers limited only by the space for their bodies
and the food for their stomachs. And he, McGuire, a _man_--he and this
other man with his clear-thinking scientific brain were prisoners to
this horde; captives, to be used or butchered by those vile, crawling
things!

And again it was this world of contrast that drove home the conviction
with its sickening certainty. A world of beauty, of delicate colors, of
sweeping oceans and gleaming shores and towering cities with their grace
and beauty and elfin splendor yet a world that shuddered beneath this
devouring plague of grublike men.

       *       *       *       *       *

They swept past cities and towns and over many miles of open land before
their craft swung eastward toward the dark horizon. The master gave
another order into the speaking tube and their ship shot forward, faster
and yet faster, with a speed that pressed them heavily into their seats.
Behind them was the glory of the sunlit clouds; ahead the gloomy
gray-black masses that must make a stygian night sky over this lonely
world--a world cut off by that vaporous shell from all communion with
the stars.

They were over the water; before them a dark ocean reached out in
forbidding emptiness to a darker horizon. Ahead, the only broken line in
the vast level expanse was a mountain rising abruptly from the sea. It
was a volcanic cone surmounting an island; the sunlight's glow reflected
from behind them against the sombre mass that lifted toward the clouds.
Their ship was high enough to clear it, but instead it swung, as McGuire
watched, toward the south.

The island drifted past, and again they were on their course. But to
the flyer there were significant facts that could not pass unobserved.
Their own ship had swung in a great circle to avoid this mountain. And
all through the skies were others that did the same. The air above and
about the grim sentinel peak was devoid of flying shapes.

McGuire caught the eyes of the councilor, their keeper. "What is that?"
he asked, though he knew the words were lost on the other. He nodded his
head toward the distant peak, and his question was plainly in regard to
the island. And for the first time since their coming to this wild
world, he saw, flashing across the features of one of these men, a trace
of emotion that could only be construed as fear.

The slitted cat eyes lost their look of complacent superiority. They
widened involuntarily, and the face was drained of its blotched color.
There was fear, terror unmistakable, though it showed for but an
instant. He had control of his features almost at once, but the flyer
had read their story.

Here was something that gave pause to this race of conquering vermin; a
place in the expanse of this vast sea that brought panic to their
hearts. And there came to him, as he stowed the remembrance away in his
mind, the first glow of hope. These things could fear a mountain; it
might be that they could be brought to fear a man.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sky was clearing rapidly of traffic and the mountain of his
speculations was lost astern, when another island came slanting swiftly
up to meet them as their ship swept down from the heights. It was a tiny
speck in the ocean's expanse, a speck that resolved itself into the
squared fields of colored growth, orchards whose brilliant, strange
fruits glowed crimson in the last light of day, and enormous trees,
beyond which appeared a house.

A palace, McGuire concluded, when he saw clearly the many-storied pile.
Like the buildings they had seen, this also constructed of opalescent
quartz. There were windows that glowed warmly in the dusk. A sudden wave
of loneliness, almost unbearable, swept over the man.

Windows and gleaming lights, the good sounds of Earth; home!... And his
ears, as he stepped out into the cool air, were assailed with the
strange cackle and calling of weird folk; the air brought him scents,
from the open ground beyond, of fruits and vegetation like none he had
ever known; and the earth, the homeland of his vain imaginings, was
millions of empty miles away....

The leader stopped, and McGuire looked dispiritedly at the unfamiliar
landscape under dusky lowering skies. Trees towered high in the
air--trees grotesque and weird by all Earth standards--whose limbs were
pale green shadows in the last light of day. The foliage, too, seemed
bleached and drained of color, but among the leaves were flashes of
brilliance where night-blooming flowers burst open like star-shells to
fill the air with heavy scents.

Between the men and the forest growth was a row of denser vegetation,
great ferns twenty feet and more in height, and among them at regular
intervals stood plants of another growth--each a tremendous pod held in
air on a thick stalk. Tendrils coiled themselves like giant springs
beside each pod, tendrils as thick as a man's wrist. The great pods were
ranged in a line that extended as far as McGuire could see in the dim
light.

       *       *       *       *       *

His shoulders drooped as the guard herded him and his companion toward
the building beyond. He must not be cast down--he would not! Who knew
how much of such feeling was read by these keen-eyed observers? And the
only thought with which he could fill his mind, the one forlorn ghost of
a hope that he could cling to, was that of an island, a volcanic peak
that rose from dark waters to point upward toward the heights.

The guard of four was clustered about; the figures were waiting now in
the gathering dark--waiting, while the one in scarlet listened and spoke
alternately into a jeweled instrument that hung by a slender chain about
his neck. He raised one lean hand to motion the stirring guards to
silence, listened again intently into the instrument, then pointed that
hand toward the cloud-filled sky, while he craned his thin neck to look
above him.

The men's eyes followed the pointing hand to see only the sullen black
of unlit clouds. The last distant aircraft had vanished from the skies;
not a ship was in the air--only the enveloping blanket of high-flung
vapor that blocked out all traces of the heavens. And then!--

The cloud banks high in the skies flashed suddenly to dazzling, rolling
flame. The ground under their feet was shaken as by a distant
earthquake, while, above, the terrible fire spread, a swift, flashing
conflagration that ate up the masses of clouds.

"What in thunder--" McGuire began; then stopped as he caught, in the
light from above, the reflection of fierce exultation in the eyes of the
scarlet one. The evil, gloating message of those eyes needed no words to
explain its meaning. That this cataclysm was self-made by these beings,
McGuire knew, and he knew that in some way it meant menace to him and
his.

Yet he groped in thought for some definite meaning. No menace could this
be to himself personally, for he and Sykes stood there safe in the
company of the councilor himself. Then the threat of this flaming blast
must be directed toward the earth!

       *       *       *       *       *

The fire vanished, and once more, as Professor Sykes had seen on that
night so long ago, the blanket of clouds was broken. McGuire followed
the gaze of the scientist whose keen eyes were probing in these brief
moments into the depths of star-lit space.

"There--there!" Sykes exclaimed in awe-struck tones. His hand was
pointing outward through the space where flames had cleared the sky. A
star was shining in the heavens with a glory that surpassed all others.
It outshone all neighboring stars, and it sent its light down through
the vast empty reaches of space, a silent message to two humans,
despondent and heartsick, who stared with aching eyes.

Lieutenant McGuire did not hear his friend's whispered words. No need to
name that distant world--it was Earth! Earth!... And it was calling to
its own....

There was a flying-field--so plain before his mental eyes; men in khaki
and leather who moved and talked and spoke of familiar things ... and
the thunder of motors ... and roaring planes....

Some far recess within his deeper self responded strangely. What now of
threats and these brute-things that threatened?--he was one with this
picture he had visioned. He was himself; he was a man of that distant
world of men; they would show these vile things how men could meet
menace--or death.... His shoulders were back and unconsciously he stood
erect.

The scarlet figure was close beside them in the dusk, his voice vibrant
with a quality which should have struck fear to his captives' hearts as
he ordered them on. But the look in his crafty eyes changed to one of
puzzled wonder at sight of the men.

Hands on each other's shoulders, they stood there in the gathering dark,
where grotesque trees arched twistingly overhead. Their moment of
depression had passed; Earth had called, and they had heard it, each
after his own fashion. But to each the call had been one of clear
courage. No longer cast off and forlorn, they were one with their own
world.

"Down," said Professor Sykes with a whimsical smile; "down, but not
out!" And the lieutenant responded in kind.

"Are we down-hearted?" he demanded loudly. And the two turned as one man
to grin at the scarlet one as they thundered. "N-o-o!"


CHAPTER X

Two men grinned in derision at the horrible, man-shaped thing that held
their destinies in his lean, inhuman hands!--but they turned abruptly
away to look again above them where that bright star still shone through
an opening in the clouds.

"The earth! Home!" It seemed as if they could never tear their eyes away
from the sight.

Their captor whistled an order, and the guard of four tugged vainly at
the two, who resisted that they might gaze upon their own world until
the closing clouds should blot it from sight. A cry from one of the red
guards roused them.

The dark was closing in fast, and their surroundings were dim. Vaguely,
McGuire felt more than saw one of the red figures whirled into the air.
He sensed a movement in the jungle darkness where were groves of weird
trees and the tangle of huge vegetable growths. What it was he could not
say, but he felt the guard who clutched at him quiver in terror.

Their leader snatched at the instrument that hung about his neck and put
it to his lips; he whistled an order, sharp and shrill. Blazing light
that seemed to flame in the air was the response; the air was aglow with
an all-pervading brilliance like that in the car that had whirled them
from the landing field. The light was everywhere, and the building
before them was surrounded by a dazzling envelope of luminosity.

Whatever of motion or menace there had been ceased abruptly. Their
guard, three now in number instead of four, seized them roughly and
hustled them toward an open door. No time, as they passed, for more than
fleeting impressions: a hall of warm, glowing light--a passage that
branched off--and, at the end, a room into which they were thrown, while
a metal door clanged behind them.

       *       *       *       *       *

These were no gentle hands that hurled the men staggering through the
doorway, and Professor Sykes fell headlong upon the glassy floor. He
sprang to his feet, his face aflame with anger. "The miserable beasts!"
he shouted.

"Take it easy," admonished the flyer. "We're in the hoose-gow; no use of
getting all fussed up if they don't behave like perfect gentlemen.

"There's a bunk in the corner," he said, and pointed to a woven hammock
that was covered with soft cloths; "and here's another that I can sling.
Twin beds! What more do you want?"

He opened a door and the splash of falling water came to them. A
fountain cascaded to the ceiling to fall splashing upon a floor of
inlaid, glassy tile. McGuire whistled.

"Room and bath," he said. "And you complained of the service!"

"I have an idea," he told the scientist, "that our scarlet friend who
owns this place intends to treat us decently, even though his helpers
are a bit rough. My hunch is that he wants to get some information out
of us. That old bird back there in the council chamber told me as plain
as day that they think they are going to conquer the earth. Maybe that's
why we are here--as exhibits A and B, for them to study and learn how to
lick us."

"You are talking what I would have termed nonsense a month ago,"
replied Sykes, "but now--well, I am afraid you are right. And," he said
slowly, "I fear that they are equally correct. They have conquered
space; they have ships propelled by some unknown power; they have gas
weapons, as you and I have reason to know. And they have all the
beastly ferocity to carry such a plan through to success. But I wonder
what that sky-splitting blast meant."

"Bombardment," the flyer told him; "bombardment of the earth as sure as
you're alive."

"More nonsense," said Sykes; "and probably correct.... Well, what are we
to do?--sit tight and give them as little information as we can? or--"
His question ended unfinished; the alternative, it seemed, was not plain
to him.

"There's only one answer," said McGuire. "We must get away; escape
somehow."

       *       *       *       *       *

Professor Sykes' eyes showed his appreciation of a spirit that could
still dare to hope, but he asked dejectedly: "Escape? Good idea. But
where to?"

"I have an idea," the flyer said slowly. "An idea about an island." He
told the professor what he had observed--the fact that there was one
spot of land on this globe from which the traffic of these monsters of
Venus steered clear. This, he explained, must have some significance.

"Whatever is there, God only knows," he admitted, "but it is something
these devils don't like a little bit. It might be interesting to learn
more. We'll make a break for it; find a boat. No, we probably can't do
it, but we can make a try. Now what is our first step, I wonder."

"Our first step," said Professor Sykes, measuring his words as if he
might be working out some astronomical calculation, "is into the
inverted shower-bath, if you feel as hot as I do. And our next step,
when all is quiet for the night, is through the window I see beyond. I
can see the branches of one of those undernourished trees from here."

"Last one in is a lop-eared Venusian!" said McGuire, throwing off his
jacket. And in that strange room in a strange world, under the shadow of
death and of tortures unknown, the two men stripped with all the
care-free abandon of a couple of schoolboys racing to be first in the
old swimming hole.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was some time later when the door opened and a long red hand pushed a
tray of food into the room. The tray was of unbreakable crystal--he
rattled it heedlessly upon the floor--and it held crystal dishes of
unknown foods.

They were sampling them all when Sykes remarked plaintively, "I would
like to know what under heaven I am eating."

"I've wished to know that in lots of restaurants," McGuire replied. "I
remember a place down on--" He stopped abruptly, then chewed in silence
upon a fruit like a striped pepper that stung his mouth and tongue while
he scarcely felt it. References to Earth things plainly were to be
avoided: the visions they brought before one's eyes were unnerving.

They made a pretence of sleeping in case they were being observed, and
it was some hours later when the two stood quietly beside the open
window. As Sykes had seen, there were branches of a pale, twisted
tree-growth close outside. McGuire tried his weight upon them, then
swung himself out, hand over hand, upon the branch that bent low beneath
him. Sykes was close behind when he clambered to the ground to stand for
some minutes, listening silently in the dark.

"Too easy!" the lieutenant whispered. "They are too foxy to leave
a gateway like that--but here we are. The shore is off in this
direction."

The dark of a night unrelieved by a single star was about them as they
moved noiselessly away. They followed open ground at first. The building
that had been their brief prison was upon their right; beyond and at the
left was where the ship landed--it was gone now--and beyond that the
wall of vegetation.

And again, in the dark, McGuire had an uncanny sense of motion. Soft
bodies were slipping quietly one upon another; something that lived was
there beyond them in the night. No sound or sign of life came from the
house; no guard had been posted; and McGuire stopped again, before
plunging into the tangled growth, to whisper, "Too easy, Sykes! There's
something about this--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He had pushed aside the fronds of a giant fern; a cautious step
beyond his hands touched a slippery, pliant vine. And his whisper
ended as he felt the thing turn and twist beneath his hand. It was
alive!--writhing!--cold as the body of a monster snake, and just as
vicious and savage in the way that it whipped down and about him in
the gloom of the starless night.

The thing was alive! It threw its coils around his body in an embrace
that left him breathless; a slender tendril was tightening about his
neck; his hands and arms were bound.

His ankle was grasped as he was whirled aloft--a human hand that gripped
him this time--and Sykes, forgetting discretion and the need for
silence, was shouting in the darkness that gave no clue to their
opponent. "Hang on!" he yelled. "I've got you, Mac!"

His shouts were cut short by another serpent shape that thrashed him and
smashed the softer growing things to earth that it might wrap this man,
too, in its deadly coils.

McGuire felt his companion's hold loosen as he was lifted from the
ground; there were other arms flailing about him--living, coiling things
that seemed to fight one with another for this prize. Abruptly,
blindingly, the scene was vividly etched before him: the strange trees,
the ferns, the writhing and darting serpent-arms! They were illumined in
a dazzling, white light!

He was in the air, clutched strangely in constricting arms; an odor of
rotted flesh was in his nostrils, sickening, suffocating! Beyond and
almost beneath him a cauldron of green gaped open, and he saw within it
a pool of thick liquid that eddied and steamed to give off the stench
of putrescence.

All this in an instant of vision--and in that instant he knew the death
they courted. It was a giant pod that held that pool--one of the growths
he had seen ranged out like a line of sentinels. But the terrible
tendrils that had been coiled and at rest were wrapped about him now,
drawing him to that reeking pool of death and the waiting thick lips
that would close above him. Sykes, too! The tendrils that had clutched
him were whisking his helpless body where another gaping mouth was
open--

       *       *       *       *       *

And then, in the blazing light that was more brilliant than any light of
day in this world, the hold about McGuire relaxed. He saw, as he fell,
the thick, green lips snap shut; and the arms that had held him pulled
back into harmless, tight-wound coils.

Their bodies crashed to earth where a great fern bent beneath them to
cushion their fall. And the men lay silent and gasping for great choking
breaths, while from the building beyond came the cackle and shrieking of
man-things in manifest enjoyment of the frustrated plans.

It was the laughter that determined McGuire.

"Damn the plants!" he said between hoarse breaths. "Man-eating
plants--but they're--better--than--those devils! And there's only--one
line of them: I saw them here before. Shall we go on?--make a break for
it?"

Sykes rolled to the shelter of an arching frond and, without a word,
went crawling away. McGuire was behind him, and the two, as they came to
open ground, sprang to their feet and ran on through the weird orchard
where tree trunks made dim, twisting lines. They ran blindly and
helplessly toward the outer dark that promised temporary shelter.

A hopeless attempt: both men, knew the futility of it, while they
stumbled onward through the dark. Behind them the night was hideous
with noise as the great palace gave forth an eruption of shrieking,
inhuman forms that scattered with whistling and wailing calls in all
directions.

       *       *       *       *       *

A mile or more of groping, hopeless flight, till a yellow gleam shone
among the trees to guide them. A building, beyond a clearing, gave a
bright illumination to the black night.

"We've run in a circle," choked McGuire, his voice weak and uncertain
with exhaustion. "Like a couple of fools!--"

He waited until the heavy breathing that shook his body might be
controlled, then corrected himself. "No--this is another--a new one--see
the towers! And listen--it's a radio station!"

The slender frameworks that towered high in air glowed like flame--a
warning to the ships whose lights showed now and then far overhead. And,
clear and distinct, there came to the listening men the steady,
crackling hiss of an uninterrupted signal.

Against the lighted building moving figures showed momentarily, and
McGuire pulled his friend into the safe concealment of a tangle of
growth, while the group of yelling things sped past.

"Come on," he told Sykes; "we can't get away--not a chance! Let's have a
look at this place, and perhaps--well, I have an idea!" He slipped
silently, cautiously on, where a forest of jungle ferns gave promise of
safe passage.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some warning had been sounded; the occupants of the building were
scattered to aid in the man-hunt. Only one was left in the room where
two Earth-men peeped in at the door.

The figure was seated upon an insulated platform, and his long hands
manipulated keys and levers on a table before him. McGuire and Sykes
stared amazedly at this broadcasting station whose air was filled with a
pandemonium of crashing sound from some distant room, but McGuire was
concerned mainly with the motion of a lean, blood-red hand that swung
an object like a pointer in free-running sweeps above a dial on the
table. And he detected a variation in the din from beyond as the pointer
moved swiftly.

Here was the control board for those messages he had heard; this was the
instrument that varied the sending mechanism to produce the wailing
wireless cries that made words in some far-distant ears. McGuire, as he
slipped into the room and crept within leaping distance of the grotesque
thing so like yet unlike a man, was as silent as the nameless, writhing
horror that had seized them in the dark. He sprang, and the two came
crashing to the floor.

Lean arms came quickly about him to clutch and tear at his face, but the
flyer had an arm free, and one blow ended the battle. The man of Venus
relaxed to a huddle of purple and yellow cloth from which a ghastly face
protruded. McGuire leaped to his feet and sprang to the place where the
other had been.

"Hold them off as long as you can!" he shouted to Sykes, and his hand
closed upon the pointer.

Did this station send where he was hoping? Was this the station that had
communicated with the ship that had hovered above their flying field in
that far-off land? He did not know, but it was a powerful station, and
there was a chance--

       *       *       *       *       *

He moved the pointer frantically here and there, swung it to one side
and another; then found at last a point on the outside of the strange
design beneath his hand where the pointer could rest while the crashing
crackle of sound was stilled.

And now he swung the pointer--upon the plate--anywhere!--and the noise
from beyond told instantly of the current's passage. He held it an
instant, then pushed it back to the silent spot--a dash! A quick return
that flashed back again to bring silence--a dot! More dashes and dots
... and McGuire thanked a kindly heaven that had permitted him to learn
the language of the air, while he cursed his slowness in sending.

Would it reach? Would there be anyone to hear? No certainty; he could
only flash the wild Morse symbols out into the night. He must try to get
word to them--warn them! And "Blake," he called, and spelled out the
name of their field, "warning--Venus--"

"Hold them!" he yelled to Sykes at the sound of rushing feet. "Keep them
off as long as you can!"

"... Prepare--for invasion. Blake, this is McGuire...." Over and over,
he worked the swinging pointer into symbols that might in some way, by
some fortunate chance, help that helpless people to resist the horror
that lay ahead.

And while heavy bodies crashed against the door that Sykes was holding,
there came from some deep-hidden well of memory an inspiration. There
was a man he had once met--a man who had confided wondrous things; and
now, with the knowledge of these others who had conquered space, he
could believe wholly what he had laughed and joked about before. That
man, too, had claimed to have travelled far from the earth; he had
invented a machine; his name--

The pointer was swinging in frenzied haste to spell over and over the
name of a man, and the name, too, of a forgotten place in the mountains
of Nevada. It was repeating the message; then finished in one long
crashing wail as a cloud of vapor shot about McGuire and his hand upon
the pointer went suddenly limp.


CHAPTER XI

Captain Blake's game of solitaire had become an obsession. He drove
himself to the utmost in the line of duty, and, through the day, the
demands of the flying field filled his mind to forgetfulness. And for
the rest, he forced his mind to concentrate upon the turn of the cards.
He could not read--and he must not think!--so he sat through long
evenings trying vainly to forget.

He looked up with an expressionless face as Colonel Boynton entered the
room. The colonel saw the cards and nodded.

"Does that help?" he asked, and added without waiting for an answer, "I
don't like cards, but I find my mathematics works well.... My old
problems--I can concentrate on them, and stop this eternal, damnable
thinking, thinking--"

There was something of the same look forming about the eyes of
both--that look that told of men who struggled gamely under the sentence
of death, refusing to think or to fear, and waiting, waiting,
impotently. Blake looked at the colonel with a carefully emotionless
gaze. "It's hell in the big towns, I hear."

The Colonel nodded. "Can't blame them much, if that's what appeals to
them. A year and a half!--and they've got to forget it. Why not crowd
all the recklessness and excesses they can into the time that is
left?--poor devils! But for the most part the world is wagging along,
and people are going through the familiar motions."

"Well," said Blake, "I used to wonder at times how a man might feel if
he were facing execution. Now we all know. Just going dumbly along,
feeling as little as we can, thinking of anything, everything--except
the one thing. They've turned to using dope, a lot of them, I hear.
Maybe it helps; nobody cares much. Only a year and a half."

       *       *       *       *       *

He raised his face from which all expression was consciously erased.
"Any possible hope?" he asked. "Or do we take it when it comes and fight
with what we've got as long as we can? There was some talk in the papers
of an invention--Bureau of Standards cooperating with the big General
Committee to investigate. Anything come of it?"

"A thousand of them," said the colonel, "all futile. No, we can't expect
much from those things. Though there's a whisper that came to me from
Washington. General Clinton--you may remember him; he was here when the
thing first broke--says that some scientist, a real one, not another of
these half-baked geniuses, has worked out a transformation of some kind.
It was too deep for me, but it is based upon changing hydrogen into
helium, I think. Liberates some perfectly tremendous amount of power.
The general had it all down pat--"

He stopped speaking at the change in Captain Blake's face. The careful
repression of all emotions was gone; the face was suddenly alive--

"I know," he said sharply; "I remember something of the theory. There is
a difference in the atoms or their protons--the liberation of an
electron from each atom--matter actually transformed into energy;
theoretical, what I have read. But--but--Oh my God, Boynton, do you mean
that they've got it?--that it will drive us through space?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The colonel drove one fist into the palm of his other hand. "Fool!
Idiot!" he exclaimed, and it was evident that the epithets were intended
for himself.

"I had forgotten that you had been trained along that line. The general
wants a man to work with them, somewhat as a liason officer to link the
army requirements closely with their developments; we are hoping to work
out a space ship, of course. You are just the man; I will radio him this
minute. Be ready to leave--" The slamming of the door marked a hurried
exit toward the radio room.

And abruptly, stifflingly, Captain Blake dared to hope. "Scientists will
come through with something, some new method of propulsion. All the
world is looking to them!" His thoughts were leaping from one
possibility to another. "Some miracle of power that will drive a fleet
through space as they have done, to battle with the enemy on his own
ground--"

Could he help? Was there one little thing that he could do to apply
their knowledge to practical ends? The thought thrilled him with
overpowering emotion an hour later as he felt the lift of the plane
beneath him.

"Report to General Clinton," the colonel's reply had said. "Captain
Blake will be assigned to special duty." He opened the throttle to his
ship's best cruising speed, but his spirit was soaring ahead to urge on
the swift scout ship whose wings drove steadily into the gathering
dusk.

       *       *       *       *       *

And then, after long hours, Washington! Brief words with many men--and
discouragement! The seat of government of the United States was a city
of despondent men, weary, hopeless, but fighting. There was a look of
strain on every face; the eyes told a story of sleepless nights and
futile thinking and planning. Blake's elation was short lived.

He was sent to New York and on into the state, where the laboratories of
a great electrical company had turned their equipment from commercial
purposes to those of war. Here, surely, one might find fuel to feed the
dying embers of hope; the new development must give greater promise than
General Clinton had intimated.

"Nothing you can do as yet," he was told, when he had stated his
mission. "It is still experimental, but we have worked out the
transformation on a small scale, and harnessed the power."

Captain Blake was in no mood for temporizing; he was tired with being
put off. He stared belligerently at the chief of this department.

"Power--hell!" he said. "We've got power now. How will you apply it? How
will we use it for travelling through space?"

The great man of science was unmoved by the outburst. "That is
poppycock," he replied; "the unscientific twaddle of the sensational
press. We are practical men here; we are working to give you men who do
the fighting better ships and better arms. But you will use them right
here on Earth."

The calm assurance of this man who spoke with a voice of such confidence
and authority left the flyer speechless. His brain sent a chaos of
profane and violent expletives to the lips that dared not frame them.
There was no adequate reply.

       *       *       *       *       *

Blake jammed his hat upon his head and walked blindly from the room.
Heedless of the protests of those he jostled on the street he went
raging on, but some subconscious urge directed his steps. He found
himself at the railway. There was a station, and a grilled window where
he was asking for a ticket back to Washington. And on the following
day--

"There is nothing I can do," he told General Clinton. "It is hopeless. I
ask to be relieved."

"Why?" The general snapped the question at him. What kind of man was
this that Boynton had sent him?

"They are fools," said Blake bluntly, "pompous, well-meaning fools! They
are planning better motors, more power"--he laughed harshly--"and they
think that with them we can attack ships that are independent of the
air."

"Still," asked General Clinton coldly, "for what purpose do you wish to
be relieved? What do you intend to do?"

"Return to the field," said Captain Blake, "to work, and put my planes
and personnel in the best possible condition; then, when the time comes,
go up and fight like hell."

An unusual phrasing of a request when one is addressing one's commander;
but the older man threw back his shoulders, that were bending under
responsibilities too great for one man to bear, and took a long breath
that relaxed his face and seemed to bring relief.

"You've got the right idea,"--he spoke slowly and thoughtfully--"the
right philosophy. It is all we have left--to fight like hell when the
time comes. Give my regards to Colonel Boynton; he sent me a good man
after all."

       *       *       *       *       *

Another long flight, westward this time, and, despite the failure of his
hopes and of his errand, Blake was flying with a mind at peace. "It is
all we have left," the general had said. Well, it was good to face
facts, to admit them--and that was that! There was no use of thinking or
worrying.... He lifted the ship to a higher level and glanced at his
compass. There were clouds up ahead, and he drove still higher into the
night, until he was above them.

And again his peace of mind was not to last.

It was night when he swung the ship over his home port and signalled for
a landing. A flood of light swept out across the field to guide him
down. He went directly to the colonel's quarters but found him gone.

"In the radio room, I think," an orderly told him.

Colonel Boynton was listening intently in the silent room; he scowled
with annoyance at the disturbance of Blake's coming; then, seeing who it
was, he motioned quickly for the captain to listen in.

"Good Lord, Blake," he told the captain in an excited whisper; "I'm glad
you're here. Another ship had been sighted; she's been all over the
earth; just scouting and mapping, probably. And there have been signals
the same as before--the same until just now. Listen!--it's talking
Morse!--it's been calling for you!"

He thrust a head set into Blake's hands, then reached for some papers.
"Poor reception, but there's what we've got," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

The paper held the merest fragments of messages that the operator had
deciphered. Blake examined them curiously while he listened at the
silent receiver.

"Maricopa"--the message, whatever it was, was meant for them, but there
were only parts of words and disjointed phrases that the man had written
down--"Venus attacking Earth ... Captain Blake ... Sykes and...."

At the name of Sykes, Blake dropped the paper.

"What does this mean?" he demanded. "Sykes!--why Sykes was the
astronomer who was captured with McGuire!"

"Listen! Listen!" The colonel's voice was almost shrill with excitement.

The night was whispering faintly the merest echo of a signal from a
station far away, but it resolved itself into broken fragments of sound
that were long and short in duration, and the fragments joined to form
letters in the Morse code.

"See Winslow," it told them, and repeated the message: "See Winslow at
Sierra...." Some distant storm crashed and rattled for breathless
minutes. "Blake see Winslow. This is McGuire, Blake. Winslow can
help--"

The message ended abruptly. One long, wailing note; then again the night
was voiceless ... and in the radio room at Maricopa Flying Field two men
stood speechless, unbreathing, to stare at each other with incredulous
eyes, as might men who had seen a phantom--a ghost that spoke to them
and called them by name.

"McGuire--is--alive!" stammered Blake. "They've taken him--there!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Boynton was considering, weighing all the possibilities, and his
voice, when he answered, had the ring of conviction.

"That was no hoax," he agreed; "that quavering tone could never be
faked. That message was sent from the same station we heard before. Yes,
McGuire is alive--or was up to the end of that sending.... But, who the
devil is Winslow?"

Blake shook his head despairingly. "I don't know," he said. "And it
seems as if I should--"

It was hours later, far into the night, when he sprang from out of a
half-conscious doze to find himself in the middle of the floor with the
voice of McGuire ringing clearly in his ears. A buried memory had
returned to the level of his conscious mind. He rushed over to the
colonel's quarters.

"I've got it," he shouted to that officer whose head was projecting from
an upper window. "I remember! McGuire told me about this Winslow--some
hermit that he ran across. He has some invention--some machine--said he
had been to the moon. I always thought Mac half believed him. We'll go
over Mac's things and find the address."

"Do you think--do you suppose--?" began Colonel Boynton doubtfully.

"I don't dare to think," Blake responded. "God only knows if we dare
hope; but Mac--Mac's got a level head; he wouldn't send us unless he
knew! Good Lord, man!" he exclaimed, "Mac radioed us from Venus; is
there anything impossible after that?"

"Wait there," said Colonel Boynton; "I'll be right down--"


CHAPTER XII

Lieutenant McGuire awoke, as he had on other occasions, to the smell of
sickly-sweet fumes and the stifling pressure of a mask held over his
nose and mouth. He struggled to free himself, and the mask was removed.
Another of the man-creatures whom McGuire had not seen before helped him
to sit up.

A group of the attenuated figures, with their blood-and-ashes faces,
regarded him curiously. The one who had helped him arise forced the
others to stand back, and he gave McGuire a drink of yellow fluid from a
crystal goblet. The dazed man gulped it down to feel a following surge
of warmth and life that pulsed through his paralyzed body. The figures
before him came sharply from the haze that had enveloped them. A window
high above admitted a golden light that meant another day, but it
brought no cheer or encouragement to the flyer. McGuire felt crushed and
hopeless in the knowledge that his life must still go on.

If only that sleep could have continued--carried him out to the deeper
sleep of death! What hope for them here? Not a chance! And then he
remembered Sykes; he mustn't desert Sykes. He looked about him to see
the same prison room from which he and Sykes had escaped. The body of
the scientist was motionless on the hammock-bed across the room; an
occasional deep-drawn breath showed that the man still lived.

No, he must not leave Sykes, even if he had the means of death. They
would fight it through together, and perhaps--perhaps--they might yet be
of service, might find some way to avert the catastrophe that threatened
their world. Hopeless? Beyond doubt. But he must hope--and fight!

The leader had watched the light of understanding as it returned to the
flyer's eyes. He motioned now to the others, and McGuire was picked up
bodily by four of them and carried from the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

McGuire's mind was alert once more; he was eager to learn what he could
of this place that was to be their prison, but he saw little. A glory of
blending colors beyond, where the golden light from without shone
through opal walls--then he found himself upon a narrow table where
straps of metal were thrown quickly about to bind him fast. He was tied
hand and foot to the table that moved forward on smooth rollers to a
waiting lift.

What next? he questioned. Not death, for they had been too careful to
keep him alive, these repulsive things that stared at him with such cold
malevolence. Then what? And McGuire found himself with unpleasant
recollections of others he had seen strapped in similar fashion to an
operating table.

The lift that he had thought would rise fell smoothly, instead, to stop
at some point far below ground where the table with its helpless burden
was rolled into a great room.

He could move his head, and McGuire turned and twisted to look at the
maze of instruments that filled the room--a super-laboratory for
experiments of which he dared not think.

"Whoever says I'm not scared to death is a liar," he whispered to
himself, but he continued to look and wonder as he was wheeled before a
gleaming machine of many coils and shining, metal parts. A smooth sheet
of metal stood vertically beyond him; painted a grayish-white, he saw;
but he could not imagine its use. A throng of people, seated in the
room, turned blood-red faces toward the bound man and the metal sheet.

"Looks as if we were about to put on a show of some kind," he told
himself, "and I am cast for a leading role." He watched as best he could
from his bound position while a tall figure in robes of lustreless black
appeared to stand beside him.

The newcomer regarded him with a face that was devoid of all emotion.
McGuire felt the lack of the customary expression of hatred; there was
not even that; and he knew he was nothing more than a strange animal,
bound, and helpless, ready for this weird creature's experiments. The
one in black held a pencil whose tip was a tiny, brilliant light.

       *       *       *       *       *

Abruptly the room plunged to darkness, where the only visible thing was
this one point of light. Ceaselessly it waved back and forth before his
eyes; he followed it in a pattern of strange design; it approached and
receded. Again and again the motion was repeated, until McGuire felt
himself sinking--sinking--into a passive state of lethargy. His muscles
relaxed; his mind was at rest; there seemed nothing in the entire
universe of being but the single point of light that drew him on and on
... till something whispered from the far reaches of black space....

It came to him, an insistent call. It was asking about the earth--his
own world. _What of Earth's armies and their means of defense?_ Vaguely
he sensed the demand, and without conscious volition he responded. He
pictured the world he had known; how plainly he saw the wide field at
Maricopa, and the sweeping flight of a squadron of planes! _Yes--yes!
How high could they ascend?_ From one of the planes he saw the world
below; the ships were near their ceiling; this was the limit of their
climb. _And did they fight with gas? What of their deadliness?_ And
again he was seated in a plane, and he was firing tiny bullets from a
tiny gun. No. They did not use gas. _But on the ground below--what
fortifications? What means of defense?_

McGuire's mind was no longer his own; he could only respond to that
invisible questioner, that insistent demand from out of the depths where
he was floating. And yet there was something within him that protested,
that clamored at his mind and brain.

Fortifications! They must know about fortifications--anti-aircraft
guns--means for combatting aerial attack. Yes, he knew, and he must
explain--and the thing within him pounded in the back of his brain to
draw him back to himself.

He saw a battery of anti-aircraft guns in operation; the guns were
firing; shells were bursting in little plumes of smoke high in the air.
And that self within him was shouting now, hammering at him; "You are
seeing it," it told him; "it is there before you on the screen. Stop!
Stop!"

       *       *       *       *       *

And for an instant McGuire had the strange experience of witnessing his
own thoughts. Memories, mental records of past experience, were flashing
through his mind; mock battles, and the batteries were firing! And,
before him, on the metal screen, there glowed a vivid picture of the
same thing. Men were serving the guns with sure swiftness; the bursts
were high in the air--in a flash of understanding Lieutenant McGuire
knew that he was giving his country's secrets to the enemy. And in that
same instant he felt himself swept upward from the depths of that
darkness where he had drifted. He was himself again, bound and helpless
before an infernal contrivance of these devil-creatures. They had read
his thoughts; the machine beside him had projected them upon the screen
for all to see; a steady clicking might mean their reproduction in
motion pictures for later study! He, Lieutenant McGuire, was a traitor
against his will!

The screen was blank, and the lights of the room came on to show the
thin lips that smiled complacently in a cruel and evil face.

McGuire glared back into that face, and he tried with all the mental
force that he could concentrate to get across to the exultant one the
fact that they had not wholly conquered him. This much they had got--but
no more!

The thin-lipped one had an instrument in his hand, and McGuire felt the
prick of a needle plunged into his arm. He tried to move his head and
found himself powerless. And now, in the darkness of the room where all
lights were again extinguished, the helpless man was fighting the most
horrible of battles, and the battleground was within his own mind. He
was two selves, and he fought and struggled with all his consciousness
to keep those memories from flooding him.

With one part of himself he knew what it meant: a sure knowledge given
these invaders of what they must prepare to meet; he was betraying his
country; the whole of humanity! And that raging, raving self was
powerless to check the flow of memory pictures that went endlessly
through his mind and out upon the screen beyond....

He had no sense of time; he was limp and exhausted with his fruitless
struggle when he felt himself released from the bondage of the metal
straps and placed again in the hammock in his room. And he could only
look wanly and hopelessly after the figure of Professor Sykes, carried
by barbarous figures to the same ordeal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sleep, through the long night, restored both McGuire and his companion
to normal strength. The flyer was seated with his head bowed low in his
cupped hands. His words seemed wrung from an agony of spirit. "So that's
what they brought us here for," he said harshly; "that's why they're
keeping us alive!"

Professor Sykes walked back and forth in their bare room while he shook
his impotent fists in the air.

"I told them everything," he exploded; "everything!" Their astronomical
knowledge must be limited; under this blanket of clouds they can see
nothing, and from their ships they could make approximations only.

"And I have told them--the earth, and its days and seasons--its orbital
velocity and motion--its relation to the orbit of this accursed planet.
They had documents from the observatory and I explained them; I
corrected their time of firing their big gun on its equatorial position.
Oh, there is little I left untold--damn them!"

"I wish to heaven," said the flyer savagely, "that we had known; we
would have jumped out of their beastly ship somehow ten thousand feet
up, and we would have taken our information with us."

Sykes nodded agreement. "Well," he asked, "how about to-morrow, and the
next day, and the next? They will want more facts; they will pump the
last drop of information from us. Are we going to allow it?"

       *       *       *       *       *

McGuire's tone was dry. "You know the answer to that as well as I do. We
have just two alternatives; either we get out of here--find some place
to hide in, then find some way to put a crimp in their plans; or we get
out of here for good. It's twenty feet, not twenty thousand, from that
window to the ground, but I think a head-first dive would do it."

Sykes did not reply at once; he seemed to be weighing some problem in
his mind.

"I would prefer the water," he said at last. "If we _can_ get away and
reach the shore, and if there is not a possibility of escape--which I
must admit I consider highly improbable--well, we can always swim out as
far as we can go, and the result will be certain.

"This other is so messy." The man had stopped his ceaseless pacing, and
he even managed a cheerful smile at the lieutenant. "And, remember, it
might only cripple us and leave us helpless in their hands."

"Sounds all right to me," McGuire agreed, and there was a tone of
finality in his voice as he added: "They've made us do that traitor act
for the last time, anyway."

       *       *       *       *       *

Daylight comes slowly through cloud-filled skies; the window of the
room where the fountain sprayed ceaselessly was showing the first hint
of gold in the eastern sky. Above was the utter darkness of the
cloud-wrapped night as the two men swung noiselessly out into the
grotesque branches of a tree to make their way into the gloom below.
There, under the cover of great leaves, they crouched in silence, while
the darkness about them faded and a sound of subdued whistling noises
came to them from the night.

A wheel creaked, and in the dim light two figures appeared tugging at a
cart upon which was a cage of woven wire. Beyond them, against the
darker background of denser growth, tentacles coiled and twisted above
the row of guardian plants that surrounded the house.

One of the ghostly forms reached within the cage and brought forth a
struggling object that whimpered in fear. The low whine came distinctly
to the hidden men. They saw a vague black thing tossed through the air
and toward the deadly plants; they heard the swishing of pliant
tentacles and the yelping cry of a frightened animal. And the cry rose
to a shriek that ended with the gulping splash of thick liquid.

The giant pod next in line was open--they could see it dimly--and its
tentacles were writhing convulsively, hungrily, across the ground.
Another animal was taken from the cage and thrown to the waiting,
serpent forms that closed about and whirled it high in air. Another--and
another! The yelps of terror grew faint in the distance as the monsters
passed on in their gruesome work. And the two men, palpitant with
memories of their own experience, were limp and sick with horror.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the growing light they saw more plainly the fleshy, pliant arms that
whipped through the air or felt searchingly along the ground. No hope
there for bird or beast that passed by in the night; nor for men, as
they knew too well. But now, as the golden light increased, the arms
drew back to form again the tight-wound coils that flattened themselves
beside the monstrous pods whose lips were closing. Locked within them
were the pools of liquid that could dissolve a living body into food for
these vampires of the vegetable world.

"Damnable!" breathed Sykes in a savage whisper. "Utterly damnable! And
this world is peopled with such monsters!"

The last deadly arm was tightly coiled when the men stole off through
the lush growth that reached even above their heads. McGuire remembered
the outlines he had seen from the air and led the way where, if no
better concealment could be found, the ocean waited with promise of rest
and release from their inhuman captors.

They counted on an hour's start--it would be that long before their
jailer would come with their morning meal and give the alarm--and now
they went swiftly and silently through the stillness of a strange world.
The air that flicked misty-wet across their faces was heavy and heady
with the perfume of night-blooming plants. Crimson blossoms flung wide
their odorous petals, and the first golden light was filtered through
tremendous tree-growths of pale lavenders and grays to show as unreal
colors in the vegetation close about them.

       *       *       *       *       *

They found no guards; the isolation of this island made the land itself
their prison, and the men ran at full speed through every open space,
knowing as they ran that there was no refuge for them--only the ocean
waiting at the last. But their flight was not unobserved.

A great bird rose screaming from a tangle of vines; its heavy, flapping
wings flashed red against the pale trees. A pandemonium of shrieking
cries echoed its alarm as other birds took flight; the forest about them
was in an uproar of harsh cries. And faintly, from far in the rear, came
a babel of shrill calls--weird, inhuman!--the voices of the men-things
of Venus.

"It's all off," said McGuire sharply; "they'll be on our trail now!" He
plunged through where the trees were more open, and Sykes was beside him
as they ran with a burst of speed toward a hilltop beyond.

They paused, panting, upon the crest. A wide expanse of foliage in
delicate shadings swept out before them to wave gently in a sea of color
under the morning breeze, and beyond was another sea that beckoned with
white breakers on a rocky shore.

"The ocean!" gasped Sykes, and pointed a trembling hand toward their
goal. "But--I had no idea--that suicide--was--such hard work!"

The tall figure of Lieutenant McGuire turned to the shorter, breathless
man, and he gripped hard at one of his hands.

"Sykes," he said, "I'll never get another chance to say it--but you're
one good scout!... Come on!"

       *       *       *       *       *

McGuire fought to force his way through jungle growth, while screaming
birds marked where they went. The sounds of their pursuers were close
behind them when the two tore their way through the last snarled tangle
of pale vine to stand on a sheer bluff, where, below, deep waters
crashed against a rocky wall. They staggered with weariness and gulped
sobbingly of the morning air. McGuire could have sworn he was exhausted
beyond any further effort, yet from somewhere he summoned energy to
spring savagely upon a tall, blood-red figure whose purpling face rose
suddenly to confront them.

One hand closed upon the metal tube that the other hand raised, and,
with his final reserve of strength, the flyer wrapped an arm about the
tall body and rushed it stumblingly toward the cliff. To be balked
now!--to be brought back to that intolerable prison and the unthinkable
role of traitor! The khaki-clad figure wrenched furiously at the deadly
tube as they struggled and swayed on the edge of the cliff.

He freed his arm quickly, and, regardless of the clawing thing that tore
at his face and eyes, he launched one long swing for the horrible face
above him. He saw the awkward fall of a lean body, and he swayed
helplessly out to follow when the grip of Sykes' hand pulled him back
and up to momentary safety.

McGuire's mind held only the desire to kill, and he would have begun a
staggering rush toward the shrieking mob that broke from the cover
behind them, had not Sykes held him fast. At sight of the weapon, their
own gas projector, still clutched in the flyer's hand, the pursuers
halted. Their long arms pointed and their shrill calls joined in a
chorus that quavered and fell uncertainly.

       *       *       *       *       *

One, braver than the rest, dashed forward and discharged his weapon. The
spurting gas failed to reach its intended victims; it blew gently back
toward the others who fled quickly to either side. Above the trees a
giant ship nosed swiftly down, and McGuire pointed to it grimly and in
silence. The men before them were massed now for a rush.

"This is the end," said the flyer softly. "I wonder how this devilish
thing works; there's a trigger here. I will give them a shot with the
wind helping, then we'll jump for it."

The ship was above them as the slim figure of Lieutenant McGuire threw
itself a score of paces toward the waiting group. From the metal tube
there shot a stream of pale vapor that swept downward upon the others
who ran in panic from its touch.

Then back--and a grip of a hand!--and two Earth-men who threw themselves
out and downward from a sheer rock wall to the cool embrace of deep
water.

They came to the top, battered from their fall, but able to dive under a
wave and emerge again near one another.

"Swim!" urged Sykes. "Swim out! They may get us here--recover our
bodies--resuscitate us. And that wouldn't do!"

Another wave, and the two men were swimming beyond it; swimming feebly
but steadily out from shore, while above them a great cylinder of
shining metal swept past in a circling flight. They kept on while their
eyes, from the wave tops, saw it turn and come slowly back in a long
smooth descent.

It was a hundred feet above the water a short way out at sea, and the
two men made feeble motions with arms and legs, while their eyes
exchanged glances of dismay.

       *       *       *       *       *

A door had opened in the round under-surface, and a figure, whose
gas-suit made it a bloated caricature of a man, was lowered from beneath
in a sling. From the stern of the ship gaseous vapor belched downward to
spread upon the surface of the water. The wind was bringing the misty
cloud toward them. "The gas!" said McGuire despairingly. "It will knock
us out, and then that devil will get us! They'll take us back! Our last
chance--gone!"

"God help us!" said Sykes weakly. "We can't--even--die--" His feeble
strokes stopped, and he sank beneath the water. McGuire's last picture
as he too sank and the waters closed over his head, was the shining ship
hovering beyond.

He wondered only vaguely at the sudden whirling of water around him. A
solid something was rising beneath his dragging feet; a firm, solid
support that raised him again to the surface. He realized dimly the air
about him, the sodden form of Professor Sykes some few feet distant. His
numbed brain was trying to comprehend what else the eyes beheld.

A metal surface beneath them rose higher, shining wet, above the water;
a metal tube raised suddenly from its shield, to swing in quick aim upon
the enemy ship approaching from above.

His eyes moved to the ship, and to the man-thing below in the sling. Its
clothes were a mass of flame, and the figure itself was falling headlong
through the air. Above the blazing body was the metal of the ship
itself, and it sagged and melted to a liquid fire that poured, splashing
and hissing, to the waters beneath. In the wild panic the great shape
threw itself into the air; it swept out and up in curving flight to
plunge headlong into the depths....

The gas was drifting close, as McGuire saw an opening in the structure
beside him. The voice of a man, human, kindly, befriending, said
something of "hurry" and "gas," and "lift them carefully but make
haste." The white faces of men were blurred and indistinct as McGuire
felt himself lowered into a cool room and laid, with the unconscious
form of Sykes, upon a floor.

He tried to remember. He had gone down in the water--Sykes had drowned,
and he himself--he was tired--tired. "And this,"--the thought seemed a
certainty in his mind--"this is death. How--very--peculiar--" He was
trying to twist his lips to a weak laugh as the lighted ports in the
wall beside him changed from gold to green, then black--and a rushing of
torn waters was in his ears....

(_To be continued_)

       *       *       *       *       *

  ASTOUNDING STORIES
  _Appears on Newsstands_
  THE FIRST THURSDAY IN EACH MONTH




The Sea Terror

_By Captain S. P. Meek_

  The trail of mystery gold leads Carnes and Dr. Bird to a
  tremendous monster of the deep.

[Illustration: "_The mass hung over the ship._"]


"I beg your pardon, sir. I'm looking for Dr. Bird."

The famous Bureau of Standards scientist appraised the speaker rapidly.
Keen blue eyes stared questioningly at him from a mahogany brown face,
criss-crossed with a thousand tiny wrinkles. The tattooed anchor on his
hand and the ill-fitting blue serge suit smacked of the sea while the
squareness of his shoulders and the direct gaze of his eye spoke
eloquently of authority.

"I'm Dr. Bird, Captain. What can I do for you?"

"Thank you, Doctor, but I'm not a captain. My name is Mitchell and I am,
or was, the first mate of the _Arethusa_."

"The _Arethusa_!" Operative Carnes of the United States Secret Service
sprang to his feet. "You said the _Arethusa_? There _were_ no
survivors!"

"I believe that I am the only one."

"Where have you been hiding and why haven't you reported the fact of
your rescue to the proper authorities? Tell the truth; I'm a federal
officer!"

Carnes flashed the gold badge of the Secret Service and an expression of
anger crossed Mitchell's face.

"If I had wished to talk to an officer I could have found plenty in New
York," he said shortly. "I came to Washington in order to tell my story
to Dr. Bird."

The seaman and the detective glared at one another for a moment and then
Dr. Bird intervened.

"Pipe down, Carnes," he said softly. "Mr. Mitchell undoubtedly has
reasons, excellent reasons, for his actions. Sit down, Mr. Mitchell, and
have a cigar."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mitchell accepted the cigar which the doctor proferred and took a chair.
He lighted the weed and after another glance of hostility toward the
detective he pointedly ignored him and addressed his remarks to Dr.
Bird.

"I have no objection to telling you why I haven't spoken earlier,
Doctor," he said. "When the _Arethusa_ sank, I must have hit my head on
something, for the next thing I knew, I was in the Marine Hospital in
New York. I had been picked up unconscious by a fishing boat and brought
in, and I lay there a week before I knew anything. When I knew what I
was doing I heard about the loss of my ship and was told that there were
no survivors, and I didn't know what to do. The story I had to tell was
so weird and improbable that I hesitated to speak to anyone about it. I
was not sure at first that it was not a trick of a disordered brain, but
since my head has cleared I am convinced of the truth of it ... and yet
I know that it _can't_ be so. I have read about you and some of the
things you have done, and so as soon as I was able to travel I came
here to tell you about it. You will be better able to judge than I,
whether what I tell you really happened or was only a vision."

Dr. Bird leaned back in his chair and put the tips of his fingers
together. Long, tapering fingers they were, sensitive and well shaped,
though sadly marred by acid stains. It was in his hands alone that Dr.
Bird showed the genius in his make-up, the artistry which inspired him
to produce those miracles of experimentation which had made his name a
household word in the realm of science. Aside from those hands he more
resembled a pugilist than a scientist. A heavy shock of unruly black
hair surmounted a face with beetling black brows and a prognathous jaw.
His enormous head, with a breadth and height of forehead which were
amazing, rose from a pillar-like neck which sprang from a pair of
massive shoulders and the arching chest of the trained athlete. Dr. Bird
stood six feet two inches in his socks, and weighed over two hundred
stripped. As he leaned back a curious glitter, which Carnes had learned
to associate with keen interest, showed for an instant in his eyes.

"I will be glad to hear your story, Mr. Mitchell," he said softly. "Tell
it in your own way and try not to omit any detail, no matter how trivial
it may be."

       *       *       *       *       *

The seaman nodded and sat silent for a moment as though marshaling his
thoughts.

"The story really starts the afternoon of May 12th," he said, "although
I didn't realize the importance of the first incident at the time. We
were steaming along at good speed, hoping to make New York before too
late for quarantine, when a hail came from the forward lookout. I was on
watch and I went forward to see what was the matter. The lookout was
Louis Green, an able bodied seaman and a good one, but a confirmed
drunkard. I asked him what the trouble was and he turned toward me a
face that was haggard with terror.

"'I've seen a sea serpent, Mr. Mitchell,' he said.

"'Nonsense!' I replied sharply. 'You've been drinking again.'

"He swore that he hadn't and I asked him to describe what he had seen.
His teeth were chattering so that he could hardly speak, but he gasped
out a story about seeing a monstrous head, a half mile across, he said,
with a long snake body stretching out over the sea until the end of it
was lost on the horizon. I turned my glass in the direction he pointed
and of course there was nothing to be seen. The man's condition was such
as to make him worse than useless as a lookout, so I relieved him and
ordered him below. I took it for a touch of delirium tremens.

"We were bucking a head wind, although not a very stiff one, and we
didn't make port until after dark, so we anchored at quarantine, just
off Staten Island, in forty fathoms of water, and Captain Murphy radioed
for a Coast Guard boat to come out and lay by us for the night. As you
have probably heard, we were carrying four millions in bar gold
consigned to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York from the Bank of
England."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird and Carnes nodded. The inexplicable loss of the _Arethusa_ had
occupied much space in the papers ten days earlier.

"The cutter came out, signalled, and dropped anchor about three hundred
yards away. So far, everything was exactly as it should be. I walked to
the stern of the boat and looked out across the Atlantic and then I
realized that Green wasn't the only one who could see things. The wind
had fallen and it was getting pretty dark, but not too dark to see
things a pretty good distance away. As I looked I saw, or thought I saw,
a huge black leathery mass come to the surface a mile or so away. There
were two things on it that looked like eyes, and I had a feeling as
though some malignant thing was staring at me. I rubbed my eyes and
looked again, but the vision persisted, and I went forward to get a
glass. When I came back the thing, whatever it was, had disappeared, but
the water where it had been was boiling as though there were a great
spring or something of the sort under the surface.

"I trained my glass on the disturbed area, and I will take my oath
that I saw a huge body like a snake emerge from the water. It lay in
long undulations on the waves, and moved with them as though it were
floating. It was quite a bit nearer than the first thing had been and
I could see it plainly with the glass. I would judge it to be fifteen
or twenty feet thick, and it actually seemed to disappear in the
distance as Green had described it. The sight of the thing sent shivers
up and down my spine, and I gave a hoarse shout. The lookout hurried
to my side and asked me what the trouble was. I pointed and handed
him the glass. He looked through it and handed it back to me with a
curious expression.

"'I can't see nothing, sir,' he said.

"I took the glass from him and tried to level it but my hands were
trembling so that I was forced to rest it on the rail. The lookout was
right. There was absolutely nothing to be seen and the peculiar
appearance of the sea had subsided to normal. The lookout was staring at
me rather curiously and I knew that he was thinking the same thing about
me as I had thought about Green in the afternoon. I made some kind of an
excuse and went below to pull myself together. I caught a glimpse of
myself in the glass. I was as white as a sheet, and the sweat was
running off my face in drops.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I shook myself together after a fashion and managed to persuade myself
that the whole thing was just a trick of my mind, inspired by Green's
vivid description of his delirious vision of the afternoon. Eight bells
struck, and when Mr. Fulton, the junior officer, relieved me, I laid
down and tried to quiet myself. I didn't have much luck. Just before I
took the deck again at midnight I slipped down to the forecastle to see
how Green was coming along. He was lying in his bunk, wide awake, with
staring eyes.

"'How are you feeling now, Green?' I asked.

"He looked up at me with an expression of a man who has looked death in
the face.

"'Ain't there no chance of dockin' to-night, Mr. Mitchell?' he asked.

"'Of course not,' I said rather sharply. 'What's the matter with you?
Are you afraid your sea serpent will get us?'

"'He'll get us if we stay out here to-night, sir,' he replied with an
air of conviction. 'I saw the horrible mouth on him, large enough to
bite this ship in half; and it had a beak like a bird, like a bloody
parrot, sir. I saw its horrible body, too, with great black ulcers on
the under side of it where the sharks had been after it. For all the
shark takes a man now and then, he's the seaman's friend, sir, because
he kills off the sea serpents who would take ship and all.'

"'Nonsense, Green!' I said sharply. 'Don't talk any more such
foolishness or I'll have you ironed. You've been drinking so much that
you are seeing things, and I won't have the crew disturbed by your crazy
talk.'

"'You won't think it's talk when those big eyes stare into yours
to-night, Mr. Mitchell, and that body twists around you and squeezes the
life out of you. I don't care whether you iron me or not; I know that
I'm doomed and so is everyone else; but I won't talk about it, sir. The
crew might as well rest easy while they can, for there's no escape if we
have to stay out here to-night.'

"'Well, be sure you keep a tight mouth then,' I said, and left rather
hurriedly. I was in a cold sweat, for his air of conviction, together
with what I had seen, had shaken me pretty badly. I heard the watch
changing up above, and knew there would be men in the forecastle in a
minute. I didn't want to face them right then.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Mr. Fulton reported everything quiet when I went on deck to relieve
him, and although I surveyed the water through a night glass for as far
as I could see, there was nothing out of the way. The Coast Guard's
lights were shining less than a quarter of a mile away, and things
looked peaceful enough. The wind had gone down with the sun; the sea was
almost glassy, and there was a bright moon.

"After going around the ship, I relieved all of the watch except two men
for lookouts, and sent them below to get a good night's sleep. If I
hadn't done that, some of them might be alive now.

"I paced the deck for an hour trying to quiet my nerves, but really
getting more nervous every minute. Three bells struck and I walked
forward and leaned on the rail to watch the water. I saw a peculiar
swirl as though some large body were coming to the surface from below,
and then I saw--it.

"Dr. Bird, I take a drink once in a while when I am on shore, but never
at sea and never in excess, and I know it wasn't a vision of drink
delirium. I felt perfectly normal aside from my nervousness, and I don't
think it was fever. Either I saw it or I am insane, for it is as vivid
to me as though I were standing on the _Arethusa's_ deck and that
monstrous horror was rising once more before my eyes."

The seaman's face had become drawn and white as he talked, and drops of
sweat were trickling from his chin. Carnes sat forward absorbed in his
narrative while Dr. Bird sat back with a glitter in his black eyes and
an expression of great attention on his face.

"Go on, Mr. Mitchell," the doctor said soothingly. "Tell me just what
you saw."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mitchell shuddered and glanced quickly around the laboratory as though
to assure himself that he was safe within four walls.

"From the surface of the sea," he went on, "rose a massive body, black,
and of the appearance of wet leather. It must have been a couple of
hundred yards across, although the size of objects is often magnified by
moonlight and my terror may have added to its size. In the midst of it
were two great discs, thirty feet across, which glowed red with the
reflected moonlight. It stared for a moment and then rose higher until
it towered above the ship; and then I saw, or thought I saw, a huge
gaping beak like a parrot's. It was as Green had described it, large
enough to bite the _Arethusa_ in half, and she was a ship of three
thousand tons.

"I was frozen with horror and couldn't move or cry out. As I watched, I
saw the long snake-like body emerge from the water, and the estimate I
had made of the size in the afternoon seemed pitifully inadequate.
Presently a second and a third snake arose from the water, and then
more, until the whole sea and the air above it seemed a writhing mass of
huge snakes. I remember wondering why the watch of the Coast Guard
cutter didn't sound an alarm, and then I realized that the thing had
arisen on our port side and the cutter was on the starboard.

"The mass of snakes writhed backward and forward, and then two of them
rose in the air and hung over the ship. I could see the under side and I
saw what Green had called the scars where the sharks had attacked. They
were great cup-shaped depressions with vile white edges, and they did
resemble huge sores or ulcers. They wavered over the ship for an
instant, and then both of them dropped down on the deck.

"I found my voice and I think that I gave a yell, but even as I opened
my mouth, I realized the futility of it. The _Arethusa_ was sucked down
into the sea as though it had been a tiny chip. I saw the water rising
to the rail, and I think I cried out again. The ship tilted and I felt
myself falling. The next thing I knew was when I was in the hospital and
was told that I had been raving for a week. I was afraid to tell my
story for fear I would be put in an asylum, so I kept a tight tongue in
my head until I was discharged."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird mused for a moment as the seaman's voice stopped.

"You cried out all right, Mr. Mitchell," he said. "You gave two distinct
shouts, both of which were heard by the watch on the _Wren_, the Coast
Guard cutter. They reported that at 1:30, the _Arethusa_ sank without
warning. As soon as he heard your shouts, the watch gave the alarm and
the crew piled on deck. The _Arethusa_ was gone completely and the
_Wren_ was tossing about like 'a chip in a whirlpool' as they
graphically described it. The _Wren_ had steam up and they fought the
waves and steamed over your anchoring ground looking for survivors, but
they found none. The sea gradually subsided and they did the only thing
they could do--dropped a buoy, to guide the salvage people, and radioed
for assistance. The _Robin_ came out and joined them, and both cutters
stood by until daylight, but nothing unusual was seen. The insurance
people are trying to salvage the wreck now, but so far they have made
little headway."

"That brings me to the rest of the story, the part that made me decide
to come to you, Doctor," said the seaman. "Did you see what happened to
the divers yesterday?"

Dr. Bird nodded.

"I saw a brief account of it," he said. "It seems that two of them were
lost through their lines getting fouled and their air connections
severed in some way. I don't believe the bodies have been recovered
yet."

"They never will be recovered, Doctor. I was discharged from the
hospital yesterday and the papers were just out with an account of it. I
went down to the dock where the _John MacLean_, the salvage ship, ties
up, and I talked to Captain Starley who commands it. I have known him
casually for some years, although not intimately, and he gave me a few
more details than the press got. He didn't connect me up at first with
the Mitchell who was reported lost on the _Arethusa_.

"The first man to go down from the _MacLean_ was Charley Melrose, an
expert diver. He went down in a pressure outfit to the bottom and
started to work. Everything was going along fine until the telephone
suddenly rang and the man who answered it heard him say, 'Raise me, for
God's sake! Hurry!' The signal for raising was given, but they hadn't
got him more than thirty feet from the bottom before there came a tug on
the line and he was gone! The air line, the lifting cable and the
telephone cord floated free and were reeled in. Melrose had been plucked
off the end of that line as you or I would pluck off a grape."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird leaned forward with the curious glitter again in his eye.

"Go on," he said tersely.

"Blake, the other diver, donned a suit and insisted on being lowered at
once. Starley tried to dissuade him but he insisted on going down. They
lowered him over the side with a twelve-foot steel-shod pike in his
hand. He never got to the bottom. He had not been lowered more than a
hundred feet when a scream came over the telephone, and again there was
a jerk on the lines which threatened to wreck the reel--and the line
came aboard with no diver on the end of it. At the same time, Starley
told me, the sea boiled and churned as though the whole bottom were
coming up, and his ship was tossed about as though it were in a violent
storm, although it was calm enough for forty fathom salvage work and
that is pretty quiet, you know. Half the time his screws were out of
water and he had a hard time to keep from being capsized. He fought his
way out of the disturbed area, and as soon as he did, it started to
quiet down, and in ten minutes it was calm again.

"Starley was pretty badly shaken and besides he had lost both of his
divers, so he came in and I saw him at the dock. When I heard his yarn,
I took him into my confidence and told him what I had seen and that I
proposed coming to you and asking your advice. I was afraid until I
heard his story that it was merely a vision that I had had, but it
certainly was no vision that plucked those two divers off their lines."

"Has Captain Starley told that story to anyone else yet?"

"No, Doctor, he hasn't. He promised not to talk until after I had seen
you. I'll vouch for him; he'll keep his word through anything; and he is
keeping his whole crew on board until he hears from me."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird sprang to his feet.

"Mr. Mitchell," he said energetically, "you have shown excellent
judgment. Wire Captain Starley that you have seen me and that he is to
hold his crew on board and to talk to no one until I get there. Carnes,
telephone the Chief of Naval Operations and ask him to receive me in
conference at once. Have him get the Secretary of the Navy in, too, if
he is available. When you have finished that, telephone Bolton that you
will be away from Washington indefinitely."

"I'll telephone Admiral Buck for you, Doctor, but I don't dare telephone
any such message to Bolton; he'd take my head off. He has been running
the whole service ragged lately, and this is my first afternoon off duty
in a fortnight."

"What's the trouble, a flood of new counterfeits?"

"No, the counterfeit division is getting along all right. In point of
fact, they have lent us a dozen men. The trouble is a sudden big
increase in Communist activity throughout the country, with the Young
Labor party behind it. Bolton has been pretty jumpy since that Stokowski
affair last August and he is afraid of another attempt of some sort on
the President."

"The Young Labor party? I thought that gang was bankrupt and out of
business, since the Coast Guard broke up their alien smuggling scheme."

"They were down and out for a while, but they are in funds again--and
how! They must have three or four millions at least."

"Where did they get it?"

"That's what we have been trying to find out. The leaders have presented
bars of gold to a dozen banks throughout the country and demanded
specie. The banks shipped the gold to the mint and it was good gold,
nine hundred and twenty-five fine. What we are trying to find out is how
that gold got into the United States."

"A shipment of that size should be easy to trace."

"It would seem so, but it hasn't been. We have accounted for every pound
of every shipment that has come in through a port of entry, and we have
checked almost that close on the output of every mine in the United
States. If the gold came from Russia, it would have had to cross Europe,
and we can't get any trace of it from abroad. It looks as though they
were _making_ it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird rubbed his head thoughtfully.

"Possible, but hardly probable," he said. "How much did you say they
had?"

"Over three millions in thirty-pound bars. Each bar shows signs of
having a mint mark chiselled off, but that don't help much for they have
done too good a job. It has us pretty well bluffed."

Again Dr. Bird rubbed his head.

"Telephone Admiral Buck, and then phone Bolton and tell him exactly what
I told you to: that you will be away indefinitely. When he gets through
exploding, tell him that you are going with me and that possibly, just
barely possibly, we might be on the trail of that gold shipment."

"On the trail of the gold!" gasped Carnes. "Surely, Doctor, you don't
think--"

"Once in a while, old dear," replied the Doctor with a chuckle, "which
is more than anyone in the Secret Service does. You might tell Bolton
that I said that, but hang up quickly if you do. I don't want the wires
of my telephone melted off. No, Carnesy, I have no miraculous
inspiration as to where that gold is coming from; I just have a plain
old-fashioned hunch, and that hunch is that we are going to have lots of
fun and more than our share of danger before we see Washington again.
After you get through bearding Bolton in his den, you might call the
Chief of the Air Corps and ask him to have a bomber held at Langley
Field subject to my orders. If he squawks any, I'll talk to him."

He turned to a telephone which stood on his desk and lifted the
receiver.

"Get Mr. Lambertson on the wire," he said. "He is the chief technician
of the Pyrex Glass Works at Corning, New Jersey."

       *       *       *       *       *

The _U.S.S. Minneconsin_ steamed out of New York harbor and headed down
toward the lower bay. On her forward deck rested a huge globe. The
bottom quarter of the sphere was made of some dark opaque substance but
the upper portion was transparent as crystal. Through the walls could be
seen a quantity of apparatus resting on the opaque bottom portion. Two
mechanics from the Bureau of Standards were making final adjustments of
one of the pieces of apparatus, which resembled a tank fitted with a
piston geared to an electric motor. From the tank, tubes ran to four
hollow pipes, an inch and a half in diameter, which ran through the skin
and extended thirty inches from the outer skin of the twenty-foot
sphere. Dr. Bird stood near talking with the executive officer of the
ship and from time to time giving a brief word of direction to the
mechanics.

"It's safer than you might think, Commander," he said. "In the first
place, that globe is not made of ordinary glass; it is made of
vitrilene, a new semi-malleable glass which was developed at the Bureau
and which is being made on an experimental scale for us by the Pyrex
people. It is much stronger than ordinary glass, and is not sensitive to
shock. It is also perfectly transparent to ultra-violet light, being
superior even to rock crystal or fused quartz in that respect. The
walls, as you have noticed, are four inches thick, and I have calculated
that the ball will stand a uniform external pressure of thirty-five
hundred atmospheres, the pressure which would be encountered at a depth
of about twenty miles. I believe that it will stand a squeeze of six
thousand tons without buckling, and it is impossible to fracture it by
shock. It could be dropped from the top of the Woolworth Building, and
it would just bounce."

"It seems incredible that it could stand such a pressure as you have
named."

"My figures are conservative ones. Lambertson calculated them even
higher, but we allowed for the fact that this is the first large mass of
the material to be cast, and lowered them."

       *       *       *       *       *

"But suppose your lifting cable should break?" objected the naval
officer. "The outfit weighs a good many tons."

"You notice that the lower quarter is made of lead. The specific gravity
of the entire globe when sealed up tight with two men in it is only a
little more than unity. In the water its weight is so little that a
three-inch manilla hawser would raise it, let alone a steel cable. I
have another safety device. Granted that the cable should snap, I can
detach the lead from it and it would shoot to the surface like a
rocket."

"How long can you remain under water in it?"

"A week, if necessary. I have an oxygen tank and a carbon dioxide
removing apparatus which will keep the air in good condition. The globe
is electrically lighted, and can be heated if necessary. Should my
telephone line become fouled and broken, I have a radio set which will
enable me to communicate with you. I can't see that it is especially
dangerous; not nearly as much so as a submarine."

"What is your object in going down, if I may ask?"

"To take pictures and to explore the wreck if we can. The globe is
equipped with huge floodlights and excellent cameras. The salvage people
are having a little trouble and we are trying to help them out."

"You mentioned exploring. Can you leave the globe while it is under
water?"

"Yes. There is a locking device for doing so. A man in a diving suit can
enter the lock and fill it with water. Once the external pressure is
released he can open the outer door and step out. Coming back, he seals
the outer door and the man inside blows out the lock and compressed air
and then the inner door can be opened. It is the same principle as a
torpedo tube."

       *       *       *       *       *

A jangle of bells interrupted them and the _Minneconsin_ slowed down.
Commander Lawrence stepped to the rail and gave a sharp order to the
navigating officer on the bridge. The bells jangled again and the ship's
engines stopped.

"We are almost over the buoy, Doctor," he said.

Dr. Bird nodded and spoke to the two mechanics. With a few final
touches to the apparatus they emerged from the globe and Dr. Bird
entered.

"Come on, Carnes," he called. "No backing out at the last minute."

Carnes stepped forward with a sickly smile and joined the Doctor in the
huge sphere.

"All right, boys; close her up."

The mechanics swung the outer door into place with a crane. Both the
edge of the door and the surface against which it fitted had been ground
flat and were in addition faced with soft rubber. Bolts were fastened in
the door which passed through holes in the main sphere, and Dr. Bird
spun nuts onto them and tightened them with a heavy wrench. He and
Carnes lifted the smaller inner door into place and bolted it tight. Dr.
Bird stepped to the telephone.

"Lower away," he directed.

From a boom attached to the _Minneconsin's_ forward fighting top, a huge
steel cable swung down, and the latch at the end of the cable was closed
over a vitrilene ring which was fastened to the top of the sphere. The
cable tightened and the globe with the two men in it was lifted over the
side of the battleship and lowered gently into the water. Carnes
involuntarily ducked and threw up his hand as the waters closed over
them. Dr. Bird laughed.

"Look up, Carnes," he said.

Carnes gasped as he looked up and saw the surface of the water above
him. Dr. Bird laughed again and turned to the telephone.

"Lower away," he said. "Everything is tight."

       *       *       *       *       *

The globe descended into the depths of the sea. Darker and darker it
grew until only a faint twilight glow filled the sphere. A dark bulk
loomed before them. Dr. Bird snapped on one of his huge floodlights and
pointed.

"The _Arethusa_," he said.

The ill-fated vessel lay on her side with a huge jagged hole torn in her
fabric amidships.

"That's where her boilers burst," explained the Doctor. "Luckily we have
a hard bottom to deal with. Let's see if we can locate any of Mitchell's
sea serpents."

He turned on other flood lights and swept the bottom of the sea with
them. The huge beams bored out into the water for a quarter of a mile,
but nothing unusual was to be seen. Dr. Bird turned his attention again
to the wreck.

"Things look normal from this side," he said after a prolonged scrutiny.
"I'll have the _Minneconsin_ steam around it while we look it over."

In response to his telephone orders the ship above them swung around the
wreck in a circle, and Carnes and the Doctor viewed each side in turn.
But nothing of a suspicious nature made its appearance. The sphere
stopped opposite the hole in the side and Dr. Bird turned to Carnes.

"I'm going to put on a diving suit and explore that wreck," he said. "If
there ever was any danger, it isn't apparent now; and I can't find out
anything until I get inside."

"Don't do it, Doctor!" cried Carnes. "Remember what happened to the
other divers!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"We don't know what happened to them, Carnes. No matter what it was,
there is no danger apparent right now, and I've got to get into that
ship before I can get any real information. We could have lowered an
under-sea camera and learned as much as we have so far."

"Let me go instead of you, Doctor."

"I'm sorry to refuse you, old dear, but frankly, I wouldn't trust your
judgment as to what you had seen if you went alone; and we can't both
go."

"Why not?"

"If we both went, who would work the air to let us back in? No, this is
a one-man job and I'm the one to do it. While I am gone, keep a sharp
lookout, and if you see anything unusual call me at once."

"How can I call you?"

"On this small radio phone. A pair of receivers tuned to the right
wave-length are in my diving helmet, and I will be able to hear you
although I can't reply. I won't be gone long: I have only a small air
tank, large enough to keep me going for thirty minutes. Now help me into
my suit and keep a sharp watch. A timely warning may save my life if
anything happens."

With Carnes' assistance, Dr. Bird donned a deep-sea diving outfit and
screwed down the helmet. He crawled through the inner door into the lock
and lifted the inner door into place. Carnes fastened the door with nuts
and the Doctor opened a pair of valves in the outer door and filled the
lock with water. He removed the outer door; and, taking in one hand a
steel-shod twelve-foot pike with a hook on the end, and in the other a
waterproof flashlight, he sallied forth. As he left the shell he paused
for a moment, and then returned and picked up the heavy wrench with
which he had removed the nuts holding the outer door into place. He
fastened the tool to the belt of his suit. Then, with a wave of his hand
toward the detective, he approached the hulk.

The hole in the side was too high for him to reach, but he hooked the
end of his pike in one of the joints of the _Arethusa's_ plates and
climbed slowly and painfully up the side of the vessel. As he
disappeared into the hull, Carnes realized with a sudden start that he
had been watching his friend and neglecting the duty imposed on him of
keeping a sharp watch. He turned quickly to the floodlights and searched
the sea bottom.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing appeared, and the minutes moved as slowly as hours should.
Carnes felt that he had been submerged alone for weeks, and his nerves
grew so tense that he felt that he would scream in another instant. A
sudden thought sobered him like a dash of cold water. If he screamed,
Dr. Bird would take it for an alarm signal and possibly be afraid to
emerge from the vessel. His watch showed him that the Doctor had been
gone for twenty-five minutes and he moved slowly to the radio
transmitter.

"Dr. Bird," he said slowly and distinctly, "you have been gone nearly
thirty minutes. Nothing alarming has appeared but I will feel better
when I see you coming back."

He glued his eyes on the opening in the ship's side and waited. Five
minutes passed, and then ten, with no signs of the Doctor. Carnes moved
again to the receiver.

"It has been over half an hour. Doctor," he cried in a pleading voice.
"If you are all right, for God's sake show yourself. I am frantic with
worry."

Another five minutes passed, and the sweat dripped in a steady stream
from the detective's chin. Suddenly he gave a sob of relief and sank
back against the side of the globe. A bulky figure showed at the edge of
the hole, and Dr. Bird climbed slowly and heavily out of the hold and
dropped to the sea bottom. He lay prone for a moment before he rose and
made his way with evident effort toward the sphere. He entered the
compartment and with a heroic effort lifted the outer door into place,
and feebly and with fumbling fingers placed nuts on the bolts. His hands
wandered uncertainly toward the valves and closed the upper one. He
waved his hand toward Carnes and sank in a heap on the floor of the
lock.

       *       *       *       *       *

With trembling hands Carnes connected the air and opened the valve. Air
flowed into the lock and the water was gradually forced out. When the
lock was empty, he waited for Dr. Bird to close the outer valve but the
Doctor did not move. Carnes tore at the bolts which held the inner door
and threw his weight against it. It held against his assault, and he
thought frantically. An inspiration came to him, and he disconnected
the air valve. With a whistling rush, the air from the lock rushed into
the sphere and he forced open the inner door. A stream of sea water
drove against his feet through the open valve, and he reached for the
valve to close it. The force of the water held it open for a moment, but
he threw every ounce of his strength into the effort. The valve slowly
closed.

It was beyond his strength to haul the heavy Doctor with his pressure
diving suit through the restricted confines of the inner door, so Carnes
wormed his way into the lock and with trembling fingers unscrewed the
helmet of the Doctor's diving suit. The helmet clanged to the floor and
Carnes scooped up his hands full of water and dashed it into the
Doctor's face. There was no response and he was at his wit's end. He
sprang for the radio to order the sphere hauled up when his glance fell
on the oxygen tank. It took him only a moment to connect a rubber hose
to the tank, and in a few seconds a blast of the life-giving gas was
blowing into the scientist's face. Dr. Bird gave a convulsive gasp or
two and opened his eyes.

"Shut off the juice, Carnes," he said faintly. "Too much of that's
bad."

Carnes shut off the oxygen and Dr. Bird struggled to a sitting position
and inhaled deep breaths.

"That was a narrow squeak, old dear," he said faintly. "Give me a hand
and I'll climb in."

       *       *       *       *       *

With the detective's aid he climbed into the sphere and Carnes fastened
the inner door. Slowly the Doctor rid himself of the diving suit and lay
prone on the floor, his breath still coming in gasps.

"Thanks for your warning about the time, Carnes," he said. "I knew that
my air supply was running short but I was caught down there and couldn't
readily free myself. I thought for a while that my time had come, but it
wasn't so written. By the looks of things, I freed myself just in
time."

"Did you find out anything?" asked the detective eagerly.

"I did," replied Dr. Bird grimly. "For one thing, the gold is no longer
in the hold of the _Arethusa_."

"It's gone?"

"Clean as a whistle, every bar of it. A hole has been cut in the vault
around the combination, and the bars slid back and the door opened. The
gold has been stolen."

"Might it not have been stolen before the vessel sank?"

"The idea occurred to me of course, and I examined things pretty
carefully. I know that the theft occurred after the vessel sank."

"How could you tell?"

"For one thing, the hole was cut with an under-water cutting torch. For
the second, look here."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Doctor rolled up his trousers and showed the detective his leg.
Carnes cried out as he saw huge purple welts on it.

"What caused that?" he cried.

"As I entered the vault, I stepped full into a steel bear trap which was
set there for the purpose of catching and holding anyone who entered.
Someone has visited the _Arethusa_, since she sank, and looted her, and
also arranged so that any diver who got as far as the vault would never
return to the surface to tell of it. Luckily for myself, I carried a
heavy wrench and was able to free myself. Most divers don't carry such a
thing."

"But who could have done it?"

"That's what we have got to find out, and we aren't going to do it down
here. Give the word to have us hauled up; and, Carnes, don't mention
anything about the looting of the vessel. Allow it to be understood that
I couldn't get into the hold. We'll head back for New York at once. I
want to have a few small changes made in this sphere before we use it
again. While I am doing that, I want you to get hold of the Coast Guard
or the Immigration Service or whoever it is that has the complete
records in that case of alien smuggling, by the Young Labor party. When
you get the information, report to me and we'll go over it. You might
also drop a hint to Captain Starley that will stop all further attempts
at salvage operations for a few days. Tell him that I'll arrange to have
a Coast Guard cutter guard the locality of the wreck."

"Won't that be rather risky for the cutter?"

"I think not. The gold is gone and there is no reason to apprehend any
further danger in that locality, at least for the present."

       *       *       *       *       *

At nine o'clock next morning Carnes and Dr. Bird sat in the office of
Lieutenant Commander Minden of the United States Coast Guard, listening
intently to the history of the alien smuggling case. Commander Minden
was saying:

"Their boats would load up and clear ostensibly for Rio de Janeiro or
some other South American port, but once they were in the Atlantic, they
would alter their course and head from the Massachusetts coast. Of
course, we had no right to interfere with them on the high seas, and
they never came closer than fifty miles of our coast line. When they got
that close, they would cruise slowly back and forth for a few days and
then steam away south to the port they had cleared for. When they got
there, of course there were no passengers on board.

"We patrolled the coast carefully while they were around but we never
got any indication of any landing of aliens and yet we knew they were
being landed in some way. We drew lines so close that a cork couldn't
get by without being seen and we even had the air patrolled, but with no
results. Eventually the air patrol was the thing that gave them away.

"They had been operating so successfully that they evidently got
careless and started a load off late in the night so they didn't reach
the coast by dawn. A Navy plane was flying along the coast-line about
twelve miles off when they spotted a submarine running parallel with the
coast, headed north. It didn't look like an American craft and they went
on and radioed Washington and found that we had no under-sea craft in
that neighborhood. They returned to their patrol and followed the sub
for a matter of thirty or forty miles up the coast, and then it turned
in right toward the shore. The shore line there is rocky, and, at the
point where the sub was heading, it falls sheer about two hundred
fathoms. The sub ran right at the cliff and disappeared from view."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lieutenant Commander Minden paused impressively. Carnes and Dr. Bird set
forward in their chairs, for it was evident that the crux of the story
was at hand.

"When the plane reported what they had seen, we knew how those aliens
were being landed. The point where the sub went in gave us a good idea
of the location of their base and we threw a cordon of men around and
searched. A Navy sub was sent to the scene and they reported that there
was a tunnel opening into the rock, about a hundred fathoms under water,
running for they had no idea how far under the land. They stayed to
guard the hole while we combed the land. It took us a week to locate the
place, but we traced some truck loads of food and finally found it. This
tunnel ran under the land for a mile and then ended in a large cave
underground. The Young Labor party had established a regular receiving
depot there, and took the aliens from the sub and kept them for a day or
two until they had a chance to load them into trucks and run them into
Boston or some other town in the night.

"Once we had the place spotted, we sent a gang in and captured the whole
works without any trouble. The underground cavern had no natural opening
to the surface, but one had been made by blasting. We captured the
whole lot and then sealed the end of the hole with rock and concrete.
That was the end of the affair."

"Thank you, Commander; you have given us a very graphic description of
it. I suppose you could find the entrance which was sealed up?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Easily. I led the raiding party. I forgot to mention one blunder we
made. Evidently some word of our plans leaked out, for the sub which was
guarding the outer end of the tunnel was called away by a radio message
supposed to be from the Navy Department. It had gone only a short
distance, however, when the commander smelled a rat and made his way
back. He was too late. He was just in time to see the sub emerge from
the hole and head into the open sea. He gave chase, but the other sub
was faster than the Navy boat and it got clear away. The leader of the
gang must have been on it, for we didn't get him."

"Who was the leader?"

"From some records we captured, his name was Ivan Saranoff. I never saw
him."

"Saranoff?" said Dr. Bird thoughtfully. "The name seems familiar. Where
have I--Thunder! I know now. He was at one time a member of the faculty
of St. Petersburg. He was one of the leading biologists of his time.
Carnes, we've found our man."

"If you are thinking of Saranoff, I am afraid you are mistaken, Doctor,"
said Commander Minden. "Neither he nor his submarine have ever been
heard of since and it has been generally conceded that they were lost at
sea. We had some pretty rough weather just after that affair."

"Rough weather doesn't mean much to a sub, Commander. I expect that he's
our man. At any rate, the place we want to go is the end of that
tunnel."

"I'm at your service, Doctor."

"Carnes, get the location of that tunnel entrance from Commander Minden
and order the _Minneconsin_ to proceed north along the coast to that
vicinity and stand by for radio orders. I am going to telephone Mitchell
Field and get a plane. We have no time to lose."

       *       *       *       *       *

The plane from Mitchell Field roared down to a landing, and Carnes, Dr.
Bird and Commander Minden dismounted from the rear cockpit and looked
around. They had landed in a smooth field at the base of a rise almost
rugged enough to be called a mountain. A group of three men were
standing near them as they got out of the plane. One of the men
approached.

"Dr. Bird?" asked the newcomer. "I am Tom Harron, United States Marshal.
These two men are deputies. I understand that I am to report to you for
orders."

"I'm glad to know you, Mr. Harron. This is Operative Carnes of the
Secret Service and Commander Minden of the Coast Guard. We are going to
explore an underground cavern that is located in this vicinity."

"Do you mean the one where they used to smuggle aliens? That is closed
up. I was in charge of that work and we closed it tight as a drum two
years ago."

"Can you find the entrance?"

"Sure. It isn't over a mile from here."

"Lead the way, then. We want to take a look at it."

The marshal led the way toward the eminence and took a path which led up
a gully in its side. He paused for a moment to take his bearings and
then turned sharply to his left and climbed part way up the side of the
ravine.

"Here it is," he announced. An expression of astonishment crossed his
face and he examined the ground closely. "By Golly, Doc," he went on as
he straightened up, "this place has been opened since I left it!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Bird hurried forward and joined him. The heavy stone and concrete
with which the entrance to the cavern had been sealed were undisturbed,
but in the side of the hill was set a steel door beside the concrete.
There was no sign of a keyhole or other means of entering it.

"Was this steel door part of your work?" asked Carnes.

"No, sir, it wasn't. We sealed it solid. That door has been put there
since."

Dr. Bird closely examined the structure. He tapped it and went around
the edges and then straightened up and took a small pocket compass from
his pocket and opened the case. The needle swung crazily for a moment
and then pointed straight toward the door.

"A magnetic lock," he exclaimed. "If we could find the power line it
would be easy to force, but finding that line might take us a week. At
any rate, we have found out what we were after. This is their base from
which they are operating. Mr. Harron, I want you to station a guard
armed with rifles at this door day and night until I personally relieve
you. Remember, until I relieve you, in person. Verbal or written orders
don't go. Capture or kill anyone who tries to enter or leave the cavern
through this entrance. Just now we'll find that cavern more vulnerable
from the sea end, and that is where I mean to attack. We'll force that
door and explore from this end later. Commander Minden, you may stay
here with Mr. Harron, if you like, or you may come with Carnes and me.
We are going on board the _Minneconsin_."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Mitchell Field plane roared to a take-off and bore south along the
coast. Half an hour of flying brought them in view of the battleship
steaming at full speed up the coast. Dr. Bird radioed instructions to
the ship, and an hour later a launch picked them up from the beach and
took them out. As soon as they were on board they resumed their
progress, and in two hours the peak that Dr. Bird had marked as a
landmark was opposite.

"Steam in as close to the shore as you can safely," he said, "and then
lower us. Once we are down, you will be guided by our telephoned
instructions. Come on, Carnes, let's go."

The detective followed him into the sphere as the _Minneconsin_ edged up
toward the shore. The huge ball was lifted from the deck and lowered
gently into two hundred fathoms of water. It was pitch dark at that
depth, and Dr. Bird switched on one floodlight and studied the cliff
which rose a hundred yards from them.

"We have missed the place, Carnes," he said. "We'll have them pull us up
a few hundred feet and then steam along the coast."

He turned to the telephone and the sphere rose while the battleship
steamed slowly ahead, the vitrilene ball following in her wake. For a
quarter of a mile they continued on their way, and then Dr. Bird halted
the ship.

"What depth are we?" he asked. "Eighty fathoms? All right, lower us,
please."

       *       *       *       *       *

The ball sank until it rested on the sea bottom, and Dr. Bird turned on
two additional floodlights and studied the surroundings. The bed of the
ocean was literally covered with lobster and crab shell, with the bones
of fish scattered here and there among them. A few bones of land animals
were mixed with the debris and Carnes gave a gasp as Dr. Bird pointed
out to him a diving helmet.

"We are on the right track," said the scientist grimly. He stepped to
the telephone and ordered the sphere raised to one hundred fathoms. The
ship moved forward along the coast until Dr. Bird again stepped to the
telephone and halted it. Before them yawned the entrance to the
underground tunnel. It was about two hundred feet high and three hundred
across, and their most powerful beams would not penetrate to the end of
it. A pile of debris could be seen on the floor of the tunnel and
Carnes fancied that he could see another diving helmet among the litter.
Dr. Bird pointed toward the side of the cavern.

"See those floodlights fastened to the cliff so that their beams will
sweep across the mouth of the tunnel when they are lighted?" he said.
"Apparently the cave is used as a prison and the light beams are the
bars. The creature is not at home just now or the bars would be up. My
God! Look at that, Carnes!"

Carnes stared and echoed the Doctor's cry of surprise. Clinging to a
shelf of rock which extended out from the wall of the cavern and half
hidden among the seaweed was a huge marine creature. It looked like a
huge black slug with rudimentary eyes and mouth. The thing was fifty
feet in length and fully fifteen feet in diameter. It hung there, moving
sluggishly as though breathing, and rudimentary tentacles projecting
from one end moved in the water.

"What is it, Doctor?" asked Carnes in a voice of awe.

"It is a typical trochosphere of the giant octopus, the devil fish of
Indian Ocean legend, multiplied a thousand times," he replied. "When the
octopus lays its eggs, they hatch out into the larval form. The free
swimming larva is known as a trochosphere, and I am positive that that
is what we see; but look at the size of the thing! Man alive, if that
ever developed, I can't conceive of its dimensions!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I have seen pictures of a huge octopus pulling down a ship," said
Carnes, "but I always fancied they were imaginary."

"They are. This monstrosity before us is no product of nature. A dozen
of them would depopulate the seas in a year. It is a hideous parody of
nature conceived in the brain of a madman and produced by some glandular
disturbance. Saranoff spent years in glandular experimentation, and no
doubt he has managed to stimulate the thyroid of a normal octopus and
produce a giant. I fancy that the immediate parent of the thing before
us was of normal size, and so, probably, are its brothers and sisters.
The phenomenon of giantism of this nature occurs in alternate
generations and then only in rare instances. Its grandparent may not be
far away, however. I wish it was safe to use a submarine to explore that
cavern."

"Why isn't it?"

"Any creature powerful enough to pull the _Arethusa_ under water would
crush a frail submarine without effort. Anyway, a Navy sub isn't built
for under-water exploration like this ball is. The window space is quite
limited and they aren't equipped with powerful floodlights. I would like
to be able to reach that thing and destroy it, but it can wait until
later. The best thing we can do is to put out our lights and wait."

His hand sought the light switch, and the globe became dark. Only a tiny
glimmer of light came down to them from the surface, a hundred fathoms
above. In the darkness they stared into the depths of the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

For an hour they waited and then Dr. Bird grasped Carnes by the
shoulder and pointed. Far in the distance could be seen a tiny point
of light. It wavered and winked and at times disappeared, but it was
gradually approaching them. Dr. Bird stepped to the telephone and the
_Minneconsin_ moved a hundred yards further from the shore. The light
disappeared again as though hidden by some opaque body. Their eyes
had become accustomed to the dim light and they could dimly see a long
snake-like body approach the globe and then suddenly withdraw.

The light appeared again only a few hundred yards away. The water
swirled and the sphere swayed drunkenly as some gigantic body moved past
it with express train speed and entered the mouth of the cavern. The
light turned toward them and they could see the dim outlines of a small
submarine on which it was mounted. Another rush of water came as the
object which had entered the cave started to leave it, and the light
swung around. It bore on a huge black body, and was reflected with a red
glow from huge eyes, and the creature backed again into the cave. Back
and forth across the mouth of the cavern the light played, and the
watchers caught a glimpse of a huge parrot beak which could have
engulfed a freight car. From the cavern projected twisting tentacles of
gargantuan dimensions, and red eyes, thirty feet in diameter, glared
balefully at them. For several minutes the light of the submarine played
across the mouth of the cave, and then the floodlights on the cliff
sprang into full glow and bathed the ball and the mouth of the tunnel in
a flood of light.

Before their horrified gaze was an octopus of a size to make them
disbelieve their eyes. The submarine had moved up to within a few feet
of them, and the light from it played full on the ball. The submarine
maneuvered in the vicinity, keeping the ball full in the beam of its
light, and then drew back. As it did so, the floodlights on the cliff
died out and the beam of the submarine's light was directed away from
them. Dr. Bird jumped to the telephone.

"Head straight out to sea and full speed ahead!" he shouted. "Don't try
to pull us in; tow us!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The ball swayed as the _Minneconsin's_ mighty engines responded to his
orders and the cliff wall disappeared.

"As long as they know we're here, we might as well announce our presence
in good style," said the doctor grimly as he closed a switch and threw
all of the sphere's huge lights into action. He had turned on the lights
just in time, for even as he did so a mighty tentacle shot out of the
darkness and wrapped itself around the ball. For a moment it clung there
and then was withdrawn.

"The thing can't stand light," remarked the doctor as he threw off the
switch. "That sub was herding it like a cow by the use of a light beam.
As long as we are lighted up we are safe from attack."

"Then for God's sake turn on the lights!" cried Carnes.

"I want it to attack us," replied the doctor calmly. "We have no
offensive weapons and only by meeting an attack can we harm the thing."

As he spoke there came a soft whisper of sound from the vitrilene walls
and they were thrown from their feet by a sudden jerk. Dr. Bird stumbled
to the switch and closed it, and the ball was flooded with light. Two
arms were now on them but they were slowly withdrawn as the lights
glared forth. The huge outlines of the beast could be seen as it
followed them toward the surface. Its great eyes glared at them
hungrily. The submarine was visible only as a speck of light in the
distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

The _Minneconsin's_ speed was picking up under the urge of her huge
steam turbines, and the ball was nearing the surface. The sea was light
enough now that they could see for quite a distance. The telephone bell
jangled and Dr. Bird picked the receiver from its hook.

"Hello," he said. "What's that? You can? By all means, fire. Yes,
indeed, we're well out of danger; we must be thirty or forty feet down.
Watch the fun now," he went on to Carnes as he replaced the receiver.
"The beast is showing above the surface and they're going to shell it."

They watched the surface and suddenly there came a flash of light
followed by a dull boom of sound. The huge octopus suddenly sank below
them, thrashing its arms about wildly.

"A hit!" shouted Dr. Bird into the telephone. "Get it again if it shows
up. I want it to get good and mad."

He turned off the lights in the ball and the octopus attacked again. The
shell had taught it caution and it kept well down, but three huge arms
came up from the depths of the sea and wrapped themselves about the
ball. The forward motion stopped for a moment, and then came a jerk that
threw them down. The ball started to sink.

"Our cable has parted!" cried the doctor. "Turn on the lights!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Carnes closed the switch. The ball was so covered with the huge
tentacles that they could see nothing, but the light had its usual
effect and they were released. The ball sank toward the bottom and they
could see the huge cephalopod lying below watching them. Blood was
flowing from a wound near one of its eyes where the _Minneconsin's_
shell had found its mark.

Toward the huge monster they sank until they lay on the bottom of the
ocean and a few yards from it. In an instant the sea became opaque and
they could see nothing.

"He has shot his ink!" cried the doctor. "Here comes the real attack.
Strap yourself to the wall where you can reach one of the motor
switches."

Through the darkness huge arms came out and wrapped themselves around
the ball. The heavy vitrilene groaned under the enormous pressure which
was applied, but it held. The ink was clearing slightly and they could
see that the sphere was covered by the arms. The mass moved and the huge
maw opened before them. The pipes projecting from the sides of the ball
were buried in the creature's flesh.

"Good Lord, he's going to swallow us!" gasped the doctor. "Quick,
Carnes, the motor switch."

He closed one of them as he spoke, and the powerful little electric
motors began to hum, forcing forward the piston attached to the tank
connected to the hollow rods. Steadily the little motors hummed, and the
tank emptied through the rods into the body of the giant cephalopod.

"I hope the stuff works fast," groaned the doctor as they approached
closer to the giant maw. "I never tried giving an octopus a hypodermic
injection of prussic acid before, but it ought to do the business.
There's enough acid there to kill half New York City."

       *       *       *       *       *

Carnes blanched as the ball approached the mouth. One by one the arms
unwound until only one was holding them and the jaws opened wider. They
were almost in them when the motion stopped. They could feel a shudder
run through the arm which held them. For a moment the arm alternately
expanded and contracted, almost releasing them only to clutch them
again. Another arm came from the depths and whipped about the ball, and
again the vitrilene groaned at the pressure which was applied. The arms
were suddenly withdrawn and the ball started to sink.

"Drop the lead, Carnes!" cried the doctor. With the aid of the detective
he operated the electric catches which held the huge mass of lead to the
bottom, and the sphere shot up through the water like a rocket. It
leaped clear of the water and fell back with a splash. A half mile away
the _Minneconsin_ was swinging in a wide circle to head back toward
them. They turned their gaze toward the shore.

As they looked a giant arm shot a hundred yards up into the air,
twisting and writhing frantically. It disappeared, and another, and then
half a dozen flashed into the air. The arms dipped below the surface. A
huge black body reared its bulk free from the water for a moment, and
the sea boiled as though in a violent storm. The body sank and again the
arms were thrown up, twisting and turning like a half dozen huge snakes.
The whole creature sank below the waves and the ball tossed back and
forth, often buried under tons of water and once tossed thirty feet into
the air by the huge waves.

       *       *       *       *       *

A momentary lull came in the waves. Carnes gave a cry of astonishment
and pointed toward the shore. With an effort, Dr. Bird twisted himself
in his lashing and looked in that direction. The huge body had again
come to the surface, and three of the arms were towering into the air.
Grasped in them was a long, black, cigar-shaped object. As they watched
the object was torn into two parts and the fragments crushed by the
enormous power of the octopus. Again the arms writhed in torment, and
then they stiffened out. For a moment they towered in the air and then
slowly sank below the surface of the sea.

"The cyanide has worked," cried the doctor, "and in its last agonies the
creature has turned on its creator and destroyed him. It is a shame, for
Saranoff was a brilliant although perverted genius, and besides, I would
have liked to have learned his method. However, I may find something
when we open the land end and raid the cave; and really, he was too
brilliant a man to hang for murder. Once we open the cave and I get any
data that is there, my connection with the case will end. Trailing down
the gold and recovering it is a routine matter for Bolton, and one in
which he won't need my help."

"What about that creature we saw in the cave, Doctor? Won't it hatch
into another terror of the sea like the thing that destroyed the ship?"

"The trochosphere? No, I'm not worried there. It won't try to leave the
cave for some days yet, and by that time we'll have the land end opened
and the floodlights turned on. They will keep it there and it will
starve to death. We could send down a sub to feed it a torpedo, but
there's no need. Nature will dispose of it. Meanwhile, I hope the
_Minneconsin_ rigs up a jury tackle pretty soon and takes us on board.
I'm getting seasick."

       *       *       *       *       *

_IN THE NEXT ISSUE_

  THE FIFTH-DIMENSION CATAPULT

  _A Novelette of an Extraordinary Interdimensional Rescue_
  _By_ Murray Leinster


  THE GATE TO XORAN

  _A Thrilling Story of a Metal Man's Visit to Earth_
  _By_ Hal K. Wells


  THE EYE OF ALLAH

  _A Story of the Tracking Down of a Mysterious Scientific Killer_
  _By_ C. D. Willard


  THE PIRATE PLANET

  _Part Three of the Outstanding Current Novel_
  _By_ Charles W. Diffin


  ----_AND OTHERS_!

       *       *       *       *       *




Gray Denim

_By Harl Vincent_

  The blood of the Van Dorn's ran in Karl's veins. He rode the skies
  like an avenging god.

[Illustration: _There came a stabbing pencil of light from over Karl's
shoulder._]


Beneath the huge central arch in Cooper Square a meeting was in
progress--a gathering of the gray-clad workers of the lower levels of
New York. Less than two hundred of their number were in evidence, and
these huddled in dejected groups around the pedestal from which a
fiery-tongued orator was addressing them. Lounging negligently at the
edge of the small crowd were a dozen of the red police.

"I tell you, comrades," the speaker was shouting, "the time has come
when we must revolt. We must battle to the death with the wearers of the
purple. Why work out our lives down here so they can live in the lap of
luxury over our heads? Why labor day after day at the oxygen generators
to give them the fresh air they breathe?"

The speaker paused uncertainly as a chorus of raucous laughter came to
his ears. He glared belligerently at a group of newcomers who stood
aloof from his own gathering. Seven or eight of them there were, and
they wore the gray with obvious discomfort. Slummers! Well, they'd hear
something they could carry back with them when they returned to their
homes!

"Why," he continued in rising tones, "do we sit at the controls of the
pneumatic tubes which carry thousands of our fellows to tasks equally
irksome, while they of the purple ride their air yachts to the pleasure
cities of the sky lanes? Never in the history of mankind have the poor
been poorer and the rich richer!"

"Yah!" shouted a disrespectful voice from among the newcomers. "You're
full o' bunk! Nothing but bunk!"

An ominous murmur swelled from the crowd and the red police roused from
their lethargy. The mounting scream of a siren echoed in the vaulted
recesses above and re-echoed from the surrounding columns--the call for
reserves.

       *       *       *       *       *

All was confusion in the Square. The little group of newcomers
immediately became the center of a mÃªlÃ©e of dangerous proportions. Some
of the more timid of the wearers of the gray struggled to get out of the
crowd and away. Others, not in sympathy with the speaker, rushed to the
support of the besieged visitors. The police were, for the moment,
overwhelmed.

The orator, mad with resentment and injured pride, hurled himself into
the group. A knife flashed in his hand; rose and fell. A scream of agony
shrilled piercingly above the din of the fighting.

Then came the reserves, and the wielder of the knife turned to escape.
He broke away from the milling combatants and made speedily for the
shadows that lay beyond the great pillars of the Square. But he never
reached them, for one of the red guards raised his riot pistol and
fired. There was a dull _plop_, and a rubbery something struck the
fleeing man and wrapped powerful tentacles around his body, binding him
hand and foot in their swift embrace. He fell crashing to the pavement.

A lieutenant of the red police was shouting his orders and the din in
the Square was deafening. With their numbers greatly augmented, the
guards were now in control of the situation and their maces struck left
and right. Groans and curses came from the gray-clad workers, who now
fought desperately to escape.

Then, with startling suddenness, the artificial sunlight of the
cavernous Square was gone, leaving the battle to continue in utter
darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cooper Square, in the year 2108, was the one gathering place in New York
City where the wearers of the gray denim were permitted to assemble and
discuss their grievances publicly. Deep in the maze of lower-level ways
seldom visited by wearers of the purple, the grottolike enclosure bore
the name of a philanthropist of the late nineteenth century and still
carried a musty air of certain of the traditions of that period.

In Astor Way, on the lowest level of all, there was a tiny book shop.
Nestled between two of the great columns that provided foundation
support for the eighty levels above, it was safely hidden from the gaze
of curious passersby in the Square. Slumming parties from afar, their
purple temporarily discarded for the gray, occasionally passed within a
stone's throw of the little shop, never suspecting the existence of such
a retreat amidst the dark shadows of the pillars. But to the initiated
few amongst the wearers of the gray, and to certain of the red police,
it was well known.

Rudolph Krassin, proprietor of the establishment, was a bent and
withered ancient. His jacket of gray denim hung loosely from his
spare frame and his hollow cough bespoke a deep-seated ailment.
Looking out from behind thick lenses set in his square-rimmed
spectacles, the watery eyes seemed vacant; uncomprehending. But old
Rudolph was a scholar--keen-witted--and a gentleman besides. To his
many friends of the gray-clad multitude he was an anomaly; they
could not understand his devotion to his well-thumbed volumes. But they
listened to his words of wisdom and, more frequently than they could
afford, parted with precious labor tickets in exchange for reading
matter that was usually of the lighter variety.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the fighting started in the Square, Rudolph was watching and
listening from a point of vantage in the shadows near his shop. This
fellow Leontardo, who was the speaker, was an agitator of the worst
sort. His arguments always were calculated to arouse the passions of his
hearers; to inflame them against the wearers of the purple. He had
nothing constructive to offer. Always he spoke of destruction; war;
bloodshed. Rudolph marveled at the patience of the red police. To-day,
these newcomers, obviously a slumming party of youngsters bent on
whatever mischief they could find, were interfering with the speaker.
The old man chuckled at the first interruption. But at signs of real
trouble he scurried into the shadows and vanished in the blackness of
first-level passages known only to himself. He knew where to find the
automatic sub-station of the Power Syndicate.

Returning to the darkness he had created in the Square, he was relieved
to find that the sounds of the fighting had subsided. Apparently most of
the wearers of the gray had escaped. He skirted the avenue of pillars
along Astor Way, feeling his way from one to another as he progressed
toward his little shop. Peering into the blackness of the square he saw
the feeble beams of several flash-lamps in the hands of the police. They
were searching for survivors of the fracas, maces and riot pistols held
ready for use. A sobbing gasp from close by set his pulses throbbing. He
crept stealthily in the direction from which the sound had come.

"Steady now," came a whispered voice. "My uncle's shop is close by.
He'll take you in. Here--let me lift you."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a shuffling on the opposite side of the pillar at which
Rudolph had halted; another grunt of pain.

"Karl!" hissed the old man. It was his nephew.

"Uncle Rudolph?" came the guarded response.

"Yes. Can I help you?"

"Quick--yes--he's fainted."

The old man was around the huge base of the column in an instant. He
groped in the darkness and his hands encountered human bodies.

"Who is it?" he breathed.

"One of the hecklers, Uncle. A young lad; and of the purple I think.
He's been knifed."

Together they dragged the inert form into the shelter of the long line
of pillars. There was a trampling of many men in the square. That would
be a second detachment of reserves. A ray of light filtered through and
dancing shadows of the giant columns made grotesque outlines against the
walls of the Way. A portable searchlight had been brought to the scene.
They must hurry.

Impeded by the dead weight of their burden, they made sorry progress and
several times found it necessary to halt in the shadow of a pillar while
the red police passed by in their search of the Square. It was with a
sigh of relief that Rudolph opened the door of his shop and with still
greater satisfaction closed and bolted it securely. His nephew
shouldered the limp form of the unconscious youth and carried it to his
own bed in one of the rear rooms.

"Ugh!" exclaimed old Rudolph as he ripped open the young man's shirt,
"it's a nasty cut. Warm water, Karl."

The gaping wound was washed and bound tightly. Rudolph's experienced
fingers told him the knife had not reached a vital spot. The youth would
recover.

"But Karl," he objected, "he wears the purple. Under the gray. See!
It'll get us in trouble if we keep him."

He was stripping the young man of his clothing to prepare him for bed.
Suddenly there was revealed on the white skin a triangular mark. Bright
scarlet it was and just over the right hip. He made a hasty attempt to
hide it from the watching eyes of Karl.

"Uncle!" snapped his nephew, "--the mark you call cursed! He has it,
too!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The tall young man in gray was on his knees, tearing the hands of the
old man away. He saw the mark clearly now. There was no further use of
attempting to conceal it. Rudolph rose and faced his angered nephew, his
watery eyes inscrutable.

"You told me, Rudolph, that it was a brand that cursed me. I have seen
it on him, too. You have lied to me."

The old man's eyes wavered. He trembled violently.

"Why did you lie?" demanded Karl. "Am I not your nephew? Am I not really
cursed as you've maintained? Tell me--tell me!"

He had the old man by the shoulders, shaking him cruelly.

"Karl--Karl," begged the helpless ancient, "it was for your good. I
swear it. You were born to the purple. That's what that mark means--not
that you're degraded to the gray, as I said. But there's a reason. Let
me explain."

"Bah! A reason! You've kept me in this misery and squalor for a reason!
Who's my father?"

He flung Rudolph to the floor, where the old man crouched in apprehensive
misery.

"Please Karl--don't! I can explain. Just give me time. It's a long
story."

"Time! Time! For twenty-odd years you've lied to me; cheated me. My
birthright--where is it?"

He menaced his supposed uncle; was about to strike him. Then suddenly he
was ashamed. He turned on his heel.

"I'm leaving," he said shortly.

"Karl--my boy," begged Rudolph Krassin, struggling to his feet. "You
can't! That lad in there--he--"

But Karl was too angry to reason.

"To hell with him!" he raged, "and to hell with you! I'm through!"

He stamped from the room and out into the eery shadows of the Way. Karl
was done with his old life. He'd go to the upper levels and claim his
rights. Some day, too, he'd punish the man who'd stolen them away. God!
Born to the purple! To think he'd missed it all! Probably was kidnaped
by the old rascal he'd been calling uncle. But he'd find out. Rudolph
didn't have to explain. Fingerprint records would clear his name;
establish his rightful station in life. He dived into a passage that
would lead him to one of the express lifts. He'd soon be overhead.

       *       *       *       *       *

A sergeant of the red police looked up startled from his desk as a tall
youth in the gray denim of forty levels below appeared before him.

"Well?" he growled. The stalwart young worker had stared belligerently
and insolently, he thought.

"I want to check my fingerprint record, Sergeant."

"Hm. Pretty cocky, aren't you? The records for such as you are down
below, where you belong."

"Not mine, I think."

"So? And who the devil are you?"

"That's what I'm here to find out. I've got a triangle branded on my
right hip."

"A what?"

"Triangle. Here--look!"

The amazing youngster had raised his jacket and was pulling at his
shirt. The sergeant stared at what was revealed, his eyes bulging as he
looked.

"Lord!" he gasped, "a Van Dorn--in the gray!"

Quickly he turned to the radiovision and made rapid connection with
several persons in turn--important ones, by the appearance of the
features of each in the brilliant disc of the instrument.

Karl was confused by the sudden turn of things. The sergeant talked so
rapidly he could not catch the sense of his words. And that name, Van
Dorn, eluded him. He knew he had heard it before, in the little shop
down there in Astor Way. But he could not place it. He wished fervently
that he had paid more attention to the desires of old Rudolph; had
studied more and read the books the old man had begged him to read. His
new surroundings confused him, too, and he knew that he was the center
of some great new excitement.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then they were in the room; two individuals, one in the red uniform of a
captain of police, the other a pompous, whiskered man in purple. Others
followed and it seemed to Karl that the room was filled with them,
strangers all, and they stared at him and chattered incessantly. He
experienced an overwhelming impulse to run, but mastered it and faced
them boldly.

A square of plate glass was placed under his outstretched fingers. It
was smeared with something sticky and he watched the whiskered man as he
held it up to the light and studied the impressions. Then there was more
confusion. Everyone talked at once and the pompous one in purple made
use of the radiovision, holding the square of glass near its disc for
observation by the person he had called. The identification number was
repeated aloud, a string of figures and letters that were a meaningless
jumble to Karl. The room became quiet while the police captain thumbed
the pages of a huge book he had taken from among many similar ones that
filled a rack behind the desk.

Karl's blood froze in his veins at the rumbling swish of a car speeding
through the pneumatic tube beneath their feet. His nerves were on edge.
Then the captain of police looked up from the book and there was a
peculiar glint in his eyes as he spoke.

"Peter Van Dorn. Missing since 2085. Wanted by Continental Government.
Ha!"

The words came to Karl's ears through a growing sensation of unreality.
It seemed that the speaker was miles away and that his voice and
features were those of a radiovision likeness. Wanted by the great power
across the Atlantic! It was unthinkable. Why, he had been but an infant
in 2085! What possible crime could he have committed? But the red police
captain was speaking again, this time in a chill voice. And the room of
the police, thick with the smoke of a dozen cigars, became suddenly
stifling.

"Where have you been these twenty-three years, Peter Van Dorn?" asked
the captain. "Who have you lived with, I mean?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Something warned him to protect old Rudolph. And somehow he wished
he had not treated the old fellow as he did when he left. His
self-possession returned. A wave of hot resentment swept over him.

"That's my affair," he said defiantly.

The captain shrugged his shoulders. "Oh, well," he said, "you needn't
answer--now. We'll find out when it's necessary. In the meanwhile we'll
have to turn you over to the Continental Ambassador."

Two of the red police advanced toward him and the rest drew back.

"You mean I'm under arrest?" asked Karl incredulously.

"Certainly. Of course you're not to be harmed."

One of the guards had him by the arm and he saw the glint of handcuffs.
They couldn't do this! If it had been for rioting in the Square it
would be different. But this! It meant he was a prisoner of a foreign
government, for what reason he could not guess. He lost his head
completely.

The captain cried out in amazement as one of his huskiest guards went
sprawling under a well-planted punch. This youngster must be as crazy as
was his father before him. But he was a whirlwind. Before he could be
stopped he had tackled the other guard and with a mighty heave flung him
halfway across the room where he fell with a thud that left him dazed
and gasping. The pompous little man in the purple crawled under the desk
as the sergeant leveled a slender tube at the young giant in gray.

Karl ducked instinctively at sight of the weapon, but the spiteful
crackle of its mechanism was too quick for him. A faintly luminous ray
struck him full in the breast and stopped him in his tracks. A thrill of
intense cold chased up his spine and a thunderbolt crashed in his brain.
The captain caught his stiffened body as he fell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Karl--refusing to think of himself as Peter Van Dorn--came to his senses
as from a troubled sleep. His head ached miserably and he turned it
slowly to view his surroundings. Then, in a flash, he remembered. The
paralyzing ray of the red police! They never used it in the lower
levels; but overhead--why, the swine! He sat suddenly erect and glared
into a pair of green eyes that regarded him curiously.

A quick glance showed him that he was in a small padded compartment like
that of the pneumatic tube cars. At one end there was an amazing array
of machinery with glittering levers and handwheels--a control board on
which numberless tiny lights blinked and flickered in rapid succession.
At these controls squatted the twisted figure of a dwarf. A second of
the creatures sat at his side and stared with those horrible green
eyes.

"Lord!" he muttered. "Am I still asleep?"

"No," smiled the dwarf, "you're awake, Peter Van Dorn." The misshapen
creature did not seem unfriendly.

"Then where am I, and who are you?"

"You're in one of the Zar's rocket cars, speeding toward Dorn. We are
but two of the Zar's servants--Moon men."

"Rocket car? Moon men?" Karl was aghast. He wanted to pinch himself. But
a hollow roar to the rear told him he was in a rapidly moving vessel of
some sort. Certainly, too, these dwarfs were not figments of his
imagination.

"You've been kept completely ignorant?" asked the dwarf.

"It--it seems so." Karl was bewildered. "You mean we are out in the
open--traveling in space--to the Moon perhaps?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The dwarf laughed. "No, I wish we were," he replied. "But we are about
halfway to the capital of the Continental Empire, greatest of world
powers. We'll be there in an hour."

"But I don't understand."

"Stupid. Didn't you ever hear of the rocket ships that cross the ocean
like a projectile, mounting a thousand miles from the surface and making
the trip in two hours?"

"No!" Karl was aghast. "Are we really in such a contraption?" he
faltered.

"Say! Are you kidding me?" The dwarf was incredulous. "Do you mean to
tell me you know so little of your world as that? Have you never read
anything? The news broadcasts, the thought exchangers--don't you follow
them at all?"

Karl shook his head in growing wonder. Truly Rudolph had kept him in
ignorance. Or was it his own fault? He had refused to dig into the
volumes old Krassin had begged him to read. The broadcasts and the
thought machines--well, only those of the purple had access to those.

"Hey, Laro!" called the dwarf to his companion, "this mole is as dumb as
can be. Doesn't know he's alive hardly. And a Van Dorn!"

The two laughed uproariously and Karl raged inwardly. Mole! So that's
what they called wearers of the gray! He clenched his fists and rose
unsteadily to his feet.

"Sorry," apologized his tormentor. "Mustn't get sore now. It seems so
funny to us though. And listen, kid, you'll never have another chance to
hear it all. So, if you'll sit down and calm yourself a bit I'll give
you an earful."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mollified, Karl listened. A marvelous tale it was, of a disgruntled
scientist of the Eastern Hemisphere who had conquered that portion of
the world with the aid of the inhabitants he had found on the outer side
of the Moon; of the scientist who still ruled the East--Zar of the
Continental Empire. A horrible war--in 2085, the year of his own
birth--depopulated the countries of Asia, Europe and Africa and reduced
them to subjection. There was no combatting the destructive rays and
chemical warfare of the Moon men. The United Americas, still weakened
from a civil war of their own, remained aloof and, for some strange
reason, the Zar left them in peace, contenting himself with his conquest
of practically all of the rest of the world. Now, it seemed, the two
major powers were as separate as if on different planets, there being no
traffic between them save by governmental sanction; and that was rarely
given.

It grew uncomfortably warm in the compartment as the rocket car entered
the lower atmosphere but Karl listened spellbound to the astounding
revelations of the Moon man. There came a pause in the discourse of the
dwarf as a number of relays clicked furiously on the control board and
the vessel slackened its speed perceptibly.

"But," said Karl, thinking aloud rather than meaning to interrupt,
"what has all this to do with me? Why does the government of this Zar
want me?"

The dwarf bent close and eyed him cautiously. "Poor kid!" he whispered,
"it doesn't seem right that you should suffer for something that
happened when you were born; something you know nothing about. But the
Zar knows best. You--"

There came a stabbing pencil of light from over Karl's shoulder and the
green eyes of the dwarf went wide with horrified surprise. He clutched
at his breast where the flame had contacted, then slowly collapsed in a
pitiful, distorted heap. Karl recoiled from the odor of putrefaction
that immediately filled the compartment. He whirled to face the new
danger but saw nothing but the padded walls.

Then they were in darkness save for the blinking lights of the control
board. He was thrown forward violently and the piercing screech of
compressed air rushing past the vessel told him they had entered the
receiving tube at their destination and were being retarded in speed for
the landing. This much he had gathered from the explanations of the now
silenced dwarf.

Laro, the other Moon man, remained mute at the controls. His companion
evidently had talked too much.

       *       *       *       *       *

The vessel had stopped and a section of the padded rear wall of the
compartment moved back to reveal a second chamber. There were three
other occupants of the ship and Karl knew now at whose hands the
talkative Moon man had met his death. One of the three--all wearers of
the purple--still held the generator of the dazzling ray in his hands.
He decided wisely that resistance was useless and followed meekly when
he was led from the ship.

Endlessly they rode upward in a high-speed lift, dismounting finally at
a pneumatic tube entrance. A special car whisked them roaring into the
blackness. Then they were shot forth into the open and Karl saw the
light of the sun for the first time in many years. They were on the
upper surface of a great city, Dorn, the capital the Continental
Empire.

The air was filled with darting ships of all sorts and sizes, most of
them being pleasure craft of the wearers of the purple. To Karl it was
the sudden realization of his dreams. He was one of them. He, too,
should be wearing the purple. Then his heart sank as one of his guards
prodded him into action. His dream already was shattered for they stood
at the entrance to a great crystal pyramid that rose from the flat
expanse of the roofs of Dorn. It was the palace of the Zar.

It seemed then that fairyland had opened its gates to the young man in
gray denim. He immediately fell under its influence when they traversed
a long lane between rows of brightly colored growing things which filled
the air with sweet odors. Feathered creatures fluttered about and
twittered and caroled in the sheer joy of being alive. It was sweeter
music than he had ever believed possible or even imagined as existing.
Again he forgot the menace of the imperial edict which had brought him
from the other side of the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then rudely, he was brought back to earth. He was in the presence of the
mighty Zar and his three escorts were bowing themselves from the huge
room in which the wizened monarch sat enthroned. They had finished their
duties.

A shriveled face; beady eyes; trembling hands with abnormally large
knuckles; a cruel and determined mouth--these were the features that
most impressed Karl as he stared wordlessly at this Zar of the Eastern
Hemisphere. The magnificence of the royal robe was lost on the young
wearer of the gray.

"Well, well, so this is Peter Van Dorn, my beloved nephew." The Zar was
speaking and the chilly sarcasm in which the words were uttered belied
the friendliness they otherwise might have implied.

"That's what I'm told," replied Karl, "though I didn't know I'm supposed
to be the nephew of so great a figure as yourself."

Not bad that, for an humble wearer of the gray.

"Oh, yes, yes, indeed. Why else should I have sent for you?"

"I have wondered why--and still wonder."

"Oh, you wonder, eh?" The Zar inspected him carefully and then broke
into a cackle of horrible laughter. "A Van Dorn in gray denim!" he
chortled. "A mole of the Americas! And to think that even the Zar has
been unable to find him in all these years!"

"Stop!" bellowed Karl. "I'll not have your ridicule. Come to the point
now and have it over with. Kill me if you will, but tell me the story!"
He had seen the slender tube in the Zar's hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

An expression of surprise, almost of admiration, flickered in the beady
eyes of the Zar and was gone. He spoke coldly.

"Very well, I shall explain. You, Peter, are actually my nephew. Your
father, Derek Van Dorn, was my brother; he a king of Belravia and I a
poor but experienced scientist. He scorned me and he paid, for I learned
of the ancient race of the other side of the Moon, the side we can not
see from the earth. I went to them and enlisted their aid in warring
upon my brother. When we returned to carry on this war I learned that I
had a son. So, too, did Derek. But my son was born in obscurity and
Derek's son--you, Peter--in the lap of luxury. The war was short and, to
me, sweet. Belravia was first to fall, and I had your father removed
from this life by the vibrating death."

"You monster!" cried Karl. But the slender rod menaced him.

"A moment, my hot-headed nephew. I vowed I'd have your life, Peter, but
your father had a few friends and one of these spirited you away. So
temporarily you escaped. But now I have you where I can keep that vow.
You, too, shall die. By the vibration. But first--ha! ha!--I'll give you
a taste of the purple. Just so the going will be harder."

Karl kept his temper as best he could. He thought, conscience-stricken,
of old Rudolph, that good friend of his father. Then he thought of that
youth he had taken from the Square.

"Your son?" he asked gently. "Has he the triangular brand?"

The Zar was taken aback. "He has, yes. Why?" he asked.

"I have seen him in the Americas. He now lies wounded and in peril of
his life. What do you think of that?"

Karl was triumphant as the Zar paled.

"You lie, Peter Van Dorn!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But the beady eyes saw that the young man was truthful. Sudden fury
assailed the monarch of the East. A bell pealed its mellow summons and
three Moon men entered the Presence.

"Quick, Taru--the radiovision! Our ambassador in the Americas!" The Zar
was on his feet, his hard features terrible in fear and anger. "By God!"
he vowed, "I'll lay waste the Americas if harm has come to my son. And
you"--turning to Karl--"I'll reserve for you an even more terrible fate
than the vibrating death!"

The radiovision was wheeled in and in operation. A frightened face
appeared in its disc: the Zar's ambassador across the sea.

"Moreau--my son!" snapped the Zar. "Where is he?"

"Majesty! Have mercy!" gasped Moreau. "Paul has eluded us. He was
skylarking--in the lower levels of New York. But our secret agents are
combing the passages. We'll have him in twenty-four hours. I promise!"

The rage of the Zar was terrible to see. Karl expected momentarily that
the white flame would lay him low, for the anger of the mad ruler was
directed first at Moreau, then at himself. But a quick, evil calm
succeeded the storm.

"You, Peter," he stated, in tones suddenly silky, "shall have that
twenty-four hours--no more. If Moreau has not produced my son in that
time you shall be dismembered slowly. A finger; an ear; your tongue; a
hand--until you reveal the whereabouts of the heir to my throne!"

"Never! You scum!" Karl was on the dais in a single bound. He had the
Zar by the throat, his fingers twisting in the flabby flesh. Might as
well have it over at once. "Fratricide--murderer of my father, I'll take
you with me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But it was not to be. The throne room was filled with retainers of the
mad emperor. Strong hands tore him away and he was borne, struggling and
fighting, to the floor. A sharp pain in his forearm. A deadening of the
muscles. He was powerless, save for the painful ability to crawl to his
knees, swaying drunkenly. A delicious languor overcame him. Nothing
mattered now. He saw that a tall man in the purple had withdrawn the
needle of the hypodermic and was replacing the instrument in its case.
Ever so slowly, it seemed.

The Zar was laughing. That horrible cackle. But Karl didn't care. They'd
have their sport with him. Let 'em! Then it'd be over. Lord! If only he
had been a little quicker. He'd have torn the old Zar's windpipe from
its place!

"My word," laughed the Zar. "The sacred word of a Van Dorn. I gave it.
He'll wear the purple for a day. Take him from my sight!"

Karl was walking, quite willingly now. The effects of the drug were
altering. His muscular strength returned but his mental state underwent
a complete change. Always he'd wanted a taste of the purple. For years
he'd listened to the orators of the Square, to the conflicting
statements of old Krassin. But now he'd see. He'd know the joys of the
upper levels; the pleasure cities, perhaps. For one day. But what did it
matter? He found himself laughing and joking with his companion, a
heavy-set wearer of the purple. They were in a luxurious apartment.
Servants! Moon men all of them, but so efficient. They stripped him of
his gray denim; discarded it contemptuously. Karl kicked the heap into a
corner and laughed delightedly. His bath was waiting.

       *       *       *       *       *

Much can happen in a day. Clothed in the purple, Karl--Peter Van Dorn,
he was, now--expanded. Turgid emotions surged through his new being. He
was a new man. In his rightful place. He was delighted with the
companionship of his new friend of the purple, Leon Lemaire. An
euphonious name! A fine fellow! Fool that the Zar must be, to leave him
in the care of so amiable a man. Why, Leon couldn't hold him! None of
them could. He'd escape them all--if he wished. Twenty-four hours,
indeed!

They were in the midst of a gay company. Wine flowed freely, and Leon
had attached to their party a pair of beautiful damsels, young, and easy
to know. There was music and dancing. Lights of marvelous color played
over the assemblage in the huge hall, swaying their senses at the will
of some expert manipulator. Peter was a different person now. He was
exhilarated to the point of intoxication, but not by the wine. Somehow
he couldn't bear the taste of the amber fluid the others were imbibing
with such gusto. The effects of the drug had left a coppery taste in his
mouth. But no matter! Rhoda, his lovely companion at the table leaned
close. Her breath was hot at his throat. He swept her into his arms.
Leon and the other girl laughed approvingly.

There were many such places in the upper levels of Dorn and they
traveled from one to another. Now their party was larger, it having
been augmented by the appearance of other of Leon's friends. Fine
companions, these men of the purple, and the women were incomparable.
Especially Rhoda. They understood one another perfectly now. It was all
as he had pictured it.

Someone proposed that they visit the intermediate levels. It would be
such a lark to watch the mechanicals. They made the drop in a lift. A
laughing, riotous party. And Peter was one of them! He felt that he had
known them for years. Rhoda clung to his arm, and the languorous glances
from under her long lashes set the blood racing madly in his veins.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the levels of the mechanicals they romped boisterously. To them the
strange robots--creatures of steel and glass and copper--were objects of
ridicule. Poor, senseless mechanisms that performed the tasks that made
the wearers of the purple independent of labor. Here they saw the
preparation of their synthetic food, untouched by human hands. In one
chamber a group of mechanicals, soulless and brainless, engaged in the
delicate chemical compounding of raw materials that went into the making
of their clothing. Here was a nursery, where tiny tots born to the
purple were reared to adolescence by unfeeling but efficient mechanical
nurses. The mothers of the purple could not be bothered with their
offspring until they had reached the age of reason. The whirring
machinery of a huge power plant provided much amusement for the feminine
members of the party. It was all so massive; throbbing with energy. But
dirty! Ugh! Lucky the attendants could be mechanicals.

"We have visited the lower levels," whispered Rhoda in his ear, "but not
often. It isn't pleasant. Ignorant fools in the gray denim--too many of
them. I don't know why we permit their existence. Fools who will not
learn. Education made us as we are, and they won't take it. Sullen
looks and evil leers are all that they have for us. Hope nobody suggests
going down there now."

"Me, too," said Peter. He had forgotten that once he was Karl Krassin, a
wearer of the despised gray.

Someone in the party was becoming restless. They must move on.

"Where to?" asked Peter.

"Sans Dolor, sweet boy. A pleasure city within a hundred kilometers of
Dorn. You'll love it, Peter."

A pleasure city! Fondest dream of the wearers of the gray! In the dim
past, when he was Karl, he had dreamed it often. Now he was to visit
one!

       *       *       *       *       *

They were atop the city now and the crystal palace of the Zar shimmered
in the sunlight off there across the flat upper surface of Dorn. But it
seemed so far away that Peter did not give it a second thought. He was
living in the present.

A swift aero took them into the skies and they roared out above the
wilderness that was everywhere between the great cities of earth. Funny
nobody thought of leaving the cities and exploring the jungles of the
outside. But, of course, it wasn't necessary. They had everything they
needed within the cities. All of their wants were supplied by the
mechanicals and by the few toilers in the gray who still persisted in
ignorance and in some perverse ideas that they must work in order to
live. Besides, the jungle was dangerous.

Sans Dolor loomed into view, a great island floating in the air a
thousand meters above the tossing waters of the ocean. Peter gave not a
thought to the forces that kept it suspended. Dimly he recalled certain
words of old Rudolph, words regarding the artificial emanations that had
been discovered as capable of counteracting the force of gravity. But
his mind was intent on the pleasures to come.

They were over the city. Carefully tended foliage lined its streets and
a smooth lagoon glistened in its center. Its towers and spires were
decorated with gay colors. The streets were filled with wearers of the
purple and the nude bodies of bathers in the lagoon gleamed white in the
strong sunlight.

He sensed anew the nearness of Rhoda. Her soft warm hand nestled in his
and she responded instantly to his sudden embrace.

There came a shock and the party was stilled in dismay. The aero
careened violently and the pilot struggled with controls that were dead.
Sans Dolor dropped rapidly away beneath them. They were shooting
skyward, drawn by some inexplicable and invisible energy from above.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rhoda screamed and held him close, trembling violently. All of the women
screamed and the men cursed. Leon arose to his feet and stared at Peter.
The friendliness was gone from his features and he spat forth an
accusation. A glistening mechanism appeared in his hand as if by magic.
A ray generator! He had been appointed by the Zar to guard this upstart
and, whatever happened, he'd not let him escape with his life. The girl
shuddered at sight of the weapon and extricated herself from his arms.
Her affection too had been a pose.

Peter's mind was clearing from the effects of the drug. He had not the
slightest idea of what might have caused the quick change in the
situation but he resolved he would die fighting, if die he must. Leon
fumbled with the catch of the generator. It refused to operate. The
force that was drawing them upward had paralyzed all mechanisms aboard
the little aero. Flinging it from him in disgust he sprang for Peter.

Their minds befuddled, the rest of the men watched dully. The women
huddled together in a corner, whimpering. They were a sorry lot after
all, thought Karl. He was no longer Peter Van Dorn, and he thrilled to
the joy of battle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leon Lemaire was no mean antagonist. His flailing arms were everywhere
and a huge fist caught Karl on the side of his head and sent him
reeling. But this only served to clear his mind further and to fill him
with a cold rage. He bored in unmercifully and Lemaire soon was on the
defensive. A blow to his midsection had him puffing and Karl hammered in
rights and lefts to the now sinister face that rocked his opponent to
his heels. But the minion of the Zar was crafty. He slid to the floor as
if groggy, then with catlike agility, dove for Karl's knees, bringing
him down with a crash.

The air whistled by them as the ship was drawn upward with ever-increasing
speed. The other passengers cowered in fright as the two men rolled over
and over on the floor, banging at each other indiscriminately. Both
were hurt. Karl's lip was split, and bleeding profusely. One eye was
closing. But now he was on top and he pummeled his opponent to a pulp.
Long after he ceased resisting them, the blows continued until the
features of Leon Lemaire were unrecognizable. The infuriated Karl did not
see that one of the members of the party was creeping up on him from
behind. Neither was he aware that the upward motion of the aero had
ceased and that they now hung motionless in space. A terrific blow at
the base of his skull sent him sprawling. Must have been struck by a
rocket, one of those funny ships that crossed the ocean so quickly. A
million lights danced before his aching eyeballs.

Lying prone across the inert body of his foe, dimly conscious and
fingers clutching weakly, he knew that the cabin was filled with people.
Alien voices bellowed commands. There was the screaming of women; the
sound of blows; curses ... then all was silence and darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a far cry to the little book shop off Cooper Square, but Karl was
calling for Rudolph when he next awoke to the realization that he was
still in the land of the living. His head was bandaged and his tongue
furry. A terrible hangover. Then he heard voices and they were
discussing Peter Van Dorn. He opened one eye as an experiment. The other
refused to open. But it might have been worse. At least he was alive; he
could see well enough with the one good optic.

"Sh-h!" whispered one of the voices. "He's recovering!"

He looked solemnly into the eyes of an old man; a pair of wise and
gentle eyes that reminded him somehow of Rudolph's.

"Quiet now, Peter," said the old man. "You'll be all right in a few
minutes. Banged up a bit, you are, but nothing serious."

"Don't call me Peter," objected Karl. He loathed the sound of the name;
loathed himself for his recent thoughts and actions. "I am Karl
Krassin," he continued, "and as such will remain until I die."

There were others in the room and he saw glances of satisfaction pass
between them. This was a strange situation. These men were not of the
purple. Neither were they of the gray. Their garments shone with the
whiteness of pure silver. And that's what they were; of finely woven
metallic cloth. Was he in another world?

"Very well, Karl." The kind old man was speaking once more. "I merely
want you to know that you are among friends--your father's friends."

       *       *       *       *       *

Surprised into complete wakefulness, Karl struggled to a seated position
and surveyed the group that faced him. They were a fine looking lot,
mostly older men, but there was a refreshing wholesomeness about them.

"My father?" he faltered. "He's not alive."

"No, my poor boy. Derek Van Dorn left this life at the hands of your
uncle, Zar Boris. But we, his friends, are here to avenge him and to
restore to you his throne."

"But--but--I still do not understand."

"Of course not, because we've kept ourselves hidden from the world for
more than twenty-two years, waiting for this very moment. There are
forty-one of us, including Rudolph, my brother. We have lived in the
jungle since Boris conquered the Eastern Hemisphere. But amongst our
numbers were several scientists, two greater than was Boris, even in his
heyday. They have done wonderful things and we are now prepared to take
back what was taken from Derek--and more. His life we can not
restore--Heaven rest him--but his kingdom we can. And to his son it
shall be returned.

"You were given into Rudolph's care when little more than a babe in arms
and he has cared for you well. We've watched, you know, in the
detectoscopes--long range radiovision mechanisms that can penetrate
solid walls, the earth itself, to bring to us the images and voices of
persons who may be on the other side of the world. We've followed your
every move, my boy, and the first time we feared for you was yesterday
when the drug of the Zar's physician stole away your sense of right and
wrong. But we were in time to save you, and now we are ready to kneel at
your feet and proclaim you our king. First there is the Zar to be dealt
with and then we shall set up the new regime. Are you with us?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Karl gazed at the speaker in wonder. He a king? Always to live amongst
the wearers of the purple? To be responsible for the welfare of half the
world? It was unthinkable! But Zar Boris, the murderer of his own
father--he must be punished, and at the hands of the son!

"I'll do it," he said simply. "That is, I'll do whatever you have
planned in the way of exterminating the Zar. Then we'll talk of the new
empire. But how is the Zar to be overcome? I thought he was invincible,
with his Moon men and terrible weapons."

"Ah! That, my boy, is where our scientists have triumphed. True, his
rays were terrible. They could not be combatted when he first returned.
The strange chemicals and gases of the Moon men defied analysis or
duplication. His citadel atop the city of Dorn is proof against them
all; proof against explosives and rays of all kinds known to him. The
disintegration and decomposition rays have no effect on the crystal of
its walls. It is hermetically sealed from the outer air so can not be
gassed. The vibration impulses have no effect upon its reinforced
structure. But there is a ray, a powerful destructive agent, against
which it is not proof. And our scientists have developed this agency.
You shall have the privilege of pressing the release of the energy that
destroys the arch-fiend in his lair. His dominance over, the empire will
fall. We shall take it--for you."

A strange exaltation shone from the faces of those in the room, and Karl
found that it was contagious. His bosom swelled and he itched to handle
the controls of this wonderful ray.

"This ray," continued the brother of old Rudolph, "carries the longest
vibrations ever measured, the vibrations of infra-red, the heat-ray. We
have succeeded in concentrating a terrific amount of power in its
production, and with it are able to produce temperatures in excess of
that of the interior of the earth, where all substances are molten or
gaseous. The Zar's crystal palace cannot withstand it for a second. He
cannot escape!"

"How'll you know he's there at the time?" Karl was greatly excited, but
he was curious too.

"Come with me, my boy. I'll show you." The old man led him from the room
and the others followed respectfully.

       *       *       *       *       *

They stopped at a circular port and Karl saw that they were high above
the earth in a vessel that hovered motionless, quivering with what
seemed like human eagerness to be off.

"This vessel?" he asked.

"It's a huge sphere; the base of our operations. To it we drew the aero
on which you were fighting. A magnetic force discovered by our
scientists and differing only slightly from that used in counteracting
gravity. We let the rest of them go; foolishly I think. But it's done
now and we have no fear. From this larger vessel we shall send forth
smaller ones, armed with the heat-ray. The flagship of the fleet is to
be yours and you'll lead the attack on Dorn. Here--I'll show you the
Zar."

They had reached the room of the detectoscopes--a mass of mechanisms
that reminded Karl of nothing so much as the vitals of the intermediate
levels which he had visited with Leon--and Rhoda. He knew that he
flushed when he thought of her. What a fool he had been!

A disc glowed as one of the silver-robed strangers manipulated the
controls. The upper surface of Dorn swung into view. Rapidly the image
drew nearer and they were looking at the crystal pyramid that was the
Zar's palace. Down, down to its very tip they passed. Karl recoiled from
the image as it seemed they were falling to its glistening sides. The
sensation passed. They were through, penetrating solid crystal, masonry,
steel and duralumin girders. Room after room was opened to their view.
It was magic--the magic of the upper levels.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now they were in the throne room. A group of purple-clad men and women
stood before the dais. Leon, Rhoda--all of his wild companions were
there, facing the dais. The Zar was raging and the words of his speech
came raucously to their ears through the sound-producing mechanism.

"You've failed miserably, all of you," he screamed. "He's gotten away
and you know the penalty. Taru--the vibrating ray!"

The Moon man already was fussing with a gleaming machine, a machine with
bristling appendages having metallic spheres on their ends, a machine in
which dozens of vacuum tubes glowed suddenly.

Rhoda screamed. It was a familiar sound to Karl. He noted with
satisfaction that Leon could hardly stand on his feet and that his face
was covered with plasters. Then, startled, he saw that Leon was
shivering as with the ague. His outline on the screen grew dim and
indistinct as the rate of vibration increased. Then the body bloated and
became misty. He could see through it. The vibrating death! His father
had gone the same way!

Karl groaned at the thought. The whine of the distant machine rose in
pitch until it passed the limit of audibility. Tiny pin-points of
incandescence glowed here and there from the Zar's victims as periods of
vibration were reached that coincided with the natural periods of
certain of the molecules of their structure. They were no longer
recognizable as human beings. Shimmering auras surrounded them. Suddenly
they were torches of cold fire, weaving, oscillating with inconceivable
rapidity. Then they were gone; vanished utterly.

The Zar laughed--that horrible cackle again.

"Great God!" exclaimed Karl, "let's go! The fiend must not live a moment
longer than necessary. Are you ready?"

Rudolph's brother smiled. "We're ready Karl," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great vessel hummed with activity. The five torpedo-shaped aeros of
the battle fleet were ready to take off from the cavities in the hull.
In the flagship Karl was stationed at the control of the heat-ray. His
instructions in its operation had been simple. A telescopic sight with
crosshairs for the centering of the object to be attacked; a small
lever. That was all. He burned with impatience.

Then they were dropping; falling clear of the mother ship. The pilot
pressed a button and the electronic motors started. A burst of roaring
energy streamed from the tapered stern of their vessel and the earth
lurched violently to meet them. Down, down they dived until the rocking
surface of Dorn was just beneath them. Then they flattened out and
circled the vast upper surface. From the corner of his eye Karl saw that
the other four vessels of his fleet were just behind. There was a flurry
among the wasplike clouds of pleasure craft over the city. They scurried
for cover. Something was amiss!

"Hurry!" shouted Karl. "The warning is out! There is no time to lose!"

He pressed his face to the eye-piece of his sight, his finger on the
release lever of the ray. The crystal pyramid crossed his view and was
gone. Again it crossed, more slowly this time. And now his sight was
dead on it, the gleaming wall rushing toward him. Pressure on the tiny
button. They'd crash into the palace in another second! But no, a
brilliant flash obscured his vision, a blinding light that made the sun
seem dark by comparison. They roared on and upward. He took his eye from
the telescope and stared ahead, down. The city was dropping away, and,
where the crystal palace had stood, there was a spreading blob of molten
material from which searing vapors were drifting. The roofs of the city
were sagging all around and great streams of the sparkling, sputtering
liquid dripped into the openings that suddenly appeared. Derek Van Dorn
was avenged.

"Destroy! Destroy!" yelled Karl madly. A microphone hung before him and
his words rang through every vessel of his convoy.

       *       *       *       *       *

The lust of battle was upon him. A fleet of the Zar's aeros had risen
from below; twenty of them at least. These would be manned by Moon
creatures, he knew, and would carry all of the dreadful weapons which
had originated on that strange body. But he did not know that his own
ships were insulated against most of the rays used by the Zar's forces.
He knew only that he must fight; fight and kill; exterminate every last
one of the Zar's adherents or be exterminated in the attempt.

Kill! Kill! The madness was contagious. His pilot was a marvel and drove
his ship straight for the massed ships of the foe. The air was vivid
with light-streamers. A ray from an enemy vessel struck the thick glass
of the port through which he looked and the outer surface was shattered
and pock-marked. But a cloud of vapor and a dripping stream of fiery
liquid told him his own ray had taken effect on a vessel of the enemy.
One! They wheeled about and spiraled, coming up under another of the
Zar's aeros. It vanished in a puff of steam and they narrowly missed
being covered by the falling remnants of incandescent liquid. Two!
Karl's aim was good and he gloated in the fact. Three! They climbed and
turned over, dropping again into the fray. Four!

The air grew stifling, for the expended energy of the enemies' rays must
needs be absorbed. It could not disintegrate them nor decompose their
bodies, but the contacts were many and the liberation of heat enormous.
They were suffocating! But Karl would not desist. They drove on, now
beneath, now above an enemy ship. He lost count.

One of his own vessels was in trouble. The report came to him from the
little speaker at his ear. He looked around in alarm. A glowing object
reeled uncertainly over there between two of the aeros of the Zar. The
concentration of beams of vibrations was too much for the sturdy craft.
It was red hot and its occupants burned alive where they sat. Suddenly
it slipped into a spin and went slithering down into the city, leaving a
gaping opening where it fell. This sobered him somewhat, but he went
into the battle with renewed fury.

       *       *       *       *       *

How many had they brought down? Fifteen? Sixteen? He tore his purple
jacket from his body. The perspiration rolled from his pores. His own
ship would be next. But what did it matter? Kill! Kill! He shouted once
more into the microphone, then dived into battle. Another and another!
In Heaven's name, how many were there? It was maddening. If only he
could breathe. His lungs were seared; his eyes smarting from the heat.
And then it was over.

Three of the Zar's aeros remained, and these turned tail to run for it.
No! They were falling, nose down, under full power; diving into the city
from which they had come. Suicide? Yes. They couldn't face the
recriminations that must come to them. And anything was better than
facing that burning death from the strange little fighters which had
come from out the skies. Dorn was a mass of wreckage.

Karl tore at the fastenings of the ports, searing his fingers on the
heated metal. His pilot had collapsed, the little aero heading madly
skyward with no guiding hand. Air! They must have air! He loosened the
pilot's jacket; slapped frantically at his wrists in the effort to bring
him to consciousness. Then he was at the controls of the vessel, tugging
on first one, then the other. The aero circled and spun, executing the
most dangerous of sideslips and dives. A little voice was speaking to
him--the voice of the radio--instructing him. In a daze he followed
instructions as best he could. The whirlings of the earth stabilized
after a time and he found he was flying the vessel; climbing rapidly.

       *       *       *       *       *

A sense of power came to him as the little voice of the radio continued
to instruct. Here were the controls of the electronic motor; there the
gravity-energy. He was proceeding in the wrong direction. But what did
it matter? He learned the meaning of the tiny figures of the altimeter;
the difference between the points of the compass. Still he drove on.

"East! Turn East!" begged the little voice from the radio. "You're
heading west. Your speed--a thousand kilometers an hour--it's too fast.
Turn back, Zar Peter!"

He tore the loud speaker of the radio from its fastenings. West! He
wanted to go west! On and on he sped, becoming more and more familiar
with the workings of the little vessel as he progressed. A cooling
breeze whistled from the opened ports, a breeze that smelled of the sea.
His heart sang with the wonder of it all. He could fly. And fly he did.
Zar Peter? Never! He knew now where he belonged; knew what he wanted.
He'd find the coast of North America. Follow it until he located New
York. A landing would be easy, for had not the voice instructed him in
the use of the gravity-energy? He'd make his way to the lower levels, to
the little book shop of Rudolph Krassin. A suit of gray denim awaited
him there and he'd never discard it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Onward he sped into the night, which was falling fast. He held to his
westward course like a veteran of the air lanes. The pilot had ceased to
breathe and Karl was sorry. Game little devil, that pilot. Have to shove
his body overboard. Too bad.

Rudolph's brother would understand. He'd be watching in the detectoscope.
And the others--those who had wished to seat him on a throne--they'd
understand, too. They'd have to!

Rudolph would forgive him, he knew. Paul Van Dorn--his own cousin--the
secret agents of the Zar would never locate him! Too many friends of
Rudolph's were of the red police.

He gave himself over to happy thoughts as the little aero sped on in the
darkness. Home! He was going home! Back to the gray denim, where he
belonged and where now he would remain content.




The Ape-Men of Xlotli

_By David R. Sparks_

  A beautiful face in the depths of a geyser--and Kirby plunges into
  a desperate mid-Earth conflict with the dreadful Feathered
  Serpent.

CHAPTER I


Kirby did not know what mountains they were. He did know that the
Mannlicher bullets of eleven bad Mexicans were whining over his head and
whizzing past the hoofs of his galloping, stolen horse. The shots were
mingled with yelps which pretty well curdled his spine. In the
circumstances, the unknown range of snow mountains towering blue and
white beyond the arid, windy plateau, offering he could not tell what
dangers, seemed a paradise. Looking at them, Kirby laughed harshly to
himself.

As he dug the heels of his aviator's boots into the stallion's flanks,
the animal galloped even faster than before, and Kirby took hope. Then
more bullets and more yelps made him think that his advantage might
prove only temporary. Nevertheless, he laughed again, and as he became
accustomed to the feel of a stallion under him, he even essayed a few
pistol shots back at the pack of frantic, swarthy devils he had fooled.

[Illustration: _His head wavered back and forth and his hiss filled the
night._]

Three hours ago he had been eating a peaceful breakfast with his friend
and commandant, Colonel Miguel de Castanar, in the sunlit patio of the
commandant's hacienda. Castanar, chief of the air patrol for the
district, had waxed enthusiastic over the suppression of last spring's
revolutionists and the cowed state of up-country bandits. Captain
Freddie Kirby, American instructor of flying to Mexican pilots in the
making, had agreed with him and asked for one of the Wasps and three
days' leave with which to go visiting in Laredo. The simple matter of a
broken fuel line, a forced landing two hundred kilometres from nowhere,
and the unlucky proximity of the not-so-cowed horsemen, were the things
which had changed the day from what it had been to what it was.

The one piece of good fortune which had befallen him since the bandits
had surrounded the wrecked Wasp, looted it, and taken its lone pilot
prisoner, was the break he was getting now. During the squadron's first
halt to feed, he had knocked down his guards and made a bolt for the
grazing stallion. So far, the attempt was proving worth while.

       *       *       *       *       *

On and on the stallion lunged toward the white mountains. Kirby's eyes
became red rimmed now from fatigue and the glare of the sun and the dust
of the pitilessly bare plateau. A negligible scalp wound under his mop
of straw-colored hair, slight as it was, did not add to his comfort. But
still he would not give up, for the horse, as if it sensed what its
rider needed most, was making directly for a narrow ravine which
debouched on the plateau from the nearest mountain flank.

It was the promise of cover afforded by the jagged rocks and jungle
growth of that ravine which kept hope alive in Kirby's throbbing brain.

The stallion was blown and staggering. Foam from the heavily bitted
mouth flashed back in great yellow flakes against Kirby's dust-caked
aviator's tunic. But just the same, the five mile gallop had carried
both horse and rider beyond range of any but the most expert rifle shot.
And Kirby knew that if his own splendid mount was almost ready to crash,
the horses of his pursuers must be in worse shape still. So for the
third time since the fight had begun, he laughed. This time there was no
harshness, but only relief, in the sound which came from his dry lips.

Ten minutes later, he flung himself out of his saddle. Like the caress
of a vast, soothing hand, the shadowed coolness of the ravine lay upon
him. As his feet struck ground, they splashed in the water overflowing
from a spring at the base of an immense rock. At once Kirby dropped the
reins on the stallion's neck, giving him his freedom, and as the horse
lowered his head to drink, Kirby stooped also.

There was cover everywhere. Kirby's first move after pulling both
himself and the horse away from the spring, was to glance up the long,
deeply shaded canyon which he had entered--a gash hacked into the breast
of the steep mountain as by a titanic ax. Then, reassured as to the
possibilities for a defensive retreat, he glanced back toward the
dazzling, bare plateau.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was what he saw taking place amongst the sombreroed bandits out there
which made the grin of satisfaction fade from his broad mouth. His last
glance backward, before bolting into the canyon mouth, had showed him a
ragged squadron of men left far behind, yet galloping after him still.
But now--

Presently a puzzled frown made wrinkles in Freddie Kirby's wide
sunburned forehead. He relaxed his grip upon the heavy Luger, which, in
his big hands, looked like a cap pistol, and rubbed his eyes.

But he was not mistaken. The horsemen had halted! Out there on the
glaring, alkali-arid plateau, they were standing as still as so many
statues. Looking toward the canyon mouth which had swallowed their
quarry, they certainly were, but they were halted as completely as men
struck dead.

"Huh," Kirby grunted, and scratched behind his ear.

The next second he swung around to look at his horse, uncertain what he
was going to do next, but aware of the fact that right now, with a lot
of unknown country between himself and Castanar's sunlit patio, the
stallion was going to be a friend in need.

As he turned, however, prepared to take up the loose reins, something
else happened. The stallion let out a neigh as shrill as a trumpet
blast. As Kirby jumped, grabbed for the bridle, his fingers found empty
air. Like a crazy animal the stallion leaped past him, barely missing
him. Out toward the plain the horse jumped, out and away from the shaded
canyon mouth, out toward the spot where other horses waited. And despite
the animal's blown condition, the speed he put into his retreat left
Kirby dazed.

       *       *       *       *       *

After a helpless, profanity-filled second, Kirby scratched behind his
ear again. As certain as the fact that almost his sole hope of getting
back to civilization depended upon the stallion, was the fact that the
brute did not intend to stop running until he dropped.

"Now what in the hell ever got into his crazy head?" Kirby muttered
grimly.

Then he turned around to glance up the shadow-filled slash of a canyon,
and sniffed.

"Huh!"

Faintly in the air had risen an odor the like of which he had never
encountered in his life. A combination, it was, of the unforgetable
stench which hangs over a battlefield when the dead are long unburied,
and of a fragrance more rare, more heady, more poignantly sweet than any
essence ever concocted by Parisian perfumer.

With the drifting scent came a sound. Faint, carrying from a distance,
the rumble which Kirby heard was almost certainly that of a geyser.

There was no telling what had brought the troop of horsemen to a halt,
but after a time Kirby knew that the cause of his horse's sudden
departure must have been a whiff of the strange perfume.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a long time he stood still, watching the crazy stallion dwindle in
size, watching the line of unexpectedly timid bandits. Then, when it
became apparent that the horsemen were going to stay put either until he
came out, or showed that he never was coming out, he shrugged, and swung
on his heel so that he faced up the canyon.

The odor was dying away now, and the geyser rumble was gone. In Kirby's
heart came a mingled feeling of tense uneasiness and fascinated
curiosity. Momentarily he was almost glad that his horse _had_ bolted,
and that his pursuers _were_ blocking any lane of retreat except that
offered by the canyon. If things had been different, the queer behavior
of the Mexicans, the unaccountable actions of his horse and the equally
strange growth of his own uneasiness might have made him uncertain
whether he would go up the canyon or not. Now it was the only thing to
do, and Kirby was glad because, fear or no fear, he wanted to go on.

"I wonder," he said out loud as he started, "just what the denizens of
First Street in Kansas would say to a layout like this!"


CHAPTER II

At the end of an hour he was still wondering.

At midday the canyon was chill and dank, lit only by a half light which
at times dwindled to a deep dusk as the rock walls beetled together
hundreds of feet above his head. Always when he stumbled through one of
the darkest passages, he heard and half saw immense gray bats flapping
above him. In the half-lit reaches, he hardly took a step without seeing
great rats with gray coats, yellow teeth, and evil pink eyes. But rats
and bats combined were not as bad as the snakes. They were almost white,
and nowhere had he seen rattlers of such size. If his caution relaxed
for a second, they struck at him with fangs as long and sharp as
needles.

The tortured, twisted cedars, the paloverdi, occatilla, cholla, opunti,
through which he edged his laborious way, all offered an almost animate,
armed hostility.

Altogether this journey was the least sweet he had taken anywhere. Yet
he went on.

Why had eleven Mexican bandits refused to advance even to within decent
rifle range of the canyon's mouth? What was there about the putrid yet
gorgeous perfume that had made the stallion go off his nut, so to
speak?

After a time, Kirby veered away from a fourteen-foot rattler which
flashed in a loathsome coil on his left hand. Hungry, weakened by all he
had been through since breakfast time, he plodded doggedly on.

But a moment later he stumbled past a twisted cedar, and then stopped,
forgetting even the snakes.

At his feet lay the bleached skeleton of a man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beside the right hand, in a position which indicated that only the final
relaxation of death had loosened his grip upon a precious object, lay a
cylinder, carefully carved, of rich, yellow gold.

Of the science of anthropology Kirby knew enough to make him sure that
the dolicocephalic skull and characteristically shaped pelvic and thigh
bones of the skeleton had belonged to a white man.

As for the cylinder--But he was not so sure what that was.

Regardless of the dry swish of a rattler's body on the rocks behind
him, he lifted the object from the spot in which it had lain for no man
knew how long. Of much the size and shape of an old-time cylindrical wax
phonograph record, the softly gleaming thing weighed, he judged, almost
two pounds.

Two pounds of soft, virgin gold of a quality as fine as any he had seen
amongst all the treasures brought out of Mexico, Yucatan, and Peru
combined!

But the gold was not the only thing. If Kirby was human enough to think
in terms of treasure, he was also enough of an amateur anthropologist to
hold his breath over the carvings on the yellow surface.

First he recognized the ancient symbols of Sun and Moon. And then a
representation, semi-realistic, semi-conventionalized, of Quetzalcoatl,
the Feathered Serpent, known in all the annals of primitive Mexican
religions.

Good enough.

But the mere symbols by no means told the whole story of the cylinder.
The workmanship was archaic, older than any Aztec art Kirby knew, older
than Toltec, older far, he ventured to guess, than even earliest archaic
Mayan carvings.

God, what a find!

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment it seemed almost impossible that he, Freddie Kirby, native
of Kansas, unromantic aviator, should have been the one to discover this
relic of an unknown, lost race. Yet the cylinder of gold was there, in
his hand.

After a long minute Kirby looked around him, then listened.

From up the canyon came the provocative rumble of the geyser. It was
closer now, and Kirby, glancing at his watch which had been spared to
him in the Wasp's crash, noted that just forty-four minutes had passed
since the last eruption. There was nothing to be done about the bleached
skeleton. So, tucking the precious cylinder into his tunic, Kirby
headed on up the gash of a canyon.

Far away indeed seemed the neat, maple-shaded asphalt street, the rows
of parked cars and farm wagons, the telephone office and drug store and
bank, of the Kansas town where he had grown up.

Time passed until again he heard the geyser, and again was dizzied by
the perfume. As the fragrance--close and powerful now--died away, he
flailed with one arm at a two-foot bat which flapped close to his head.

And then he trudged his dogged way around a deeply shadowed bend, and
found the chasm not only almost wholly dark, but narrower than it had
been at any previous point.

"Holy mackerel," Kirby groaned. "Phew! If this keeps up, I--"

He stopped. His jaw dropped.

"Oh, hell!"

The beetling walls narrowed in until the gash was scarcely fifteen feet
wide. Further progress was barred by a smooth wall which rose sheer in
front of him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby did not know how many seconds passed before he made out through
the gloom that the wall was man-made and carved with the same symbols of
Sun, Moon, and Feathered Serpent, which ornamented the cylinder of gold.
But when he did realize at last, the shout with which he expressed his
feeling was anything but a groan.

It simply meant that the skeleton which once had been a man, had almost
surely found the golden cylinder beyond the wall and not in the canyon.
And if the dead man had passed that smooth, carved barrier, another man
could do it!

Kirby jumped forward, began to search in the darkness for some hidden
entrance.

Minute after minute passed. He gave another cry. He saw a long, upright
crack in the stone surface, and a quick push of his hands made the
stones in front of him give almost an inch.

All at once his shoulder was planted, and behind that square shoulder
was straining all the muscle of his two hundred pound body. The result
was all that he desired. When he ceased pushing, a slab of rock gaped
wide before him, giving entrance to a pitch dark tunnel.

For a moment he held the portal back, then, releasing his pressure, he
stepped into the dark passage. By the time a ponderous grating of rocks
assured him that the door had swung shut of its own weight, he had
produced matches and struck a light.

       *       *       *       *       *

The puny flame showed him a curving passage hewn smoothly through the
heart of bedrock. Before the flare died he walked twenty feet, and as
another match burned to his fingers, he found the right hand curve of
the passage giving way to a left hand twist. After that he dared use no
more of his precious matches. But just when the darkness was beginning
to wear badly on his nerves, he uttered a low cry.

As he increased his rapid walk to a run, the faint light he had suddenly
seen ahead of him grew until it became a circular flare of daylight
which marked the tunnel's end.

Out of the passage Kirby strode with shoulders square and head up, his
cool, level, practical blue eyes wide with wonder. Out of the tunnel he
strode into the valley of the perfumed geyser.

"God above!"

The words were vibrant with hoarse reverence. He saw the sunlight of a
cliff-surrounded diminutive Garden of Eden. He saw a vale of flowering
grass, of palms and live oaks, saw patches of lilies so huge as to
transcend belief, and dizzying clumps of tree cactus almost as tall as
the palms themselves.

What was more, he saw in the center of this upland, cliff-guarded
valley, a gaping black orifice which every faculty of judgment told him
was the mouth of the geyser of perfume. And beside it, outstretched on a
smooth sheet of rock which glistened as though coated with a layer of
clear, sparkling glass, he saw--

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby blinked his eyes rapidly, hardly believing what he saw.

On the glistening rock lay the perfectly preserved figure of a Spanish
Conquistadore in full armor. Morion and breast-plate were in place, and
glistened as though they had been burnished this morning. And the
Spaniard's dark, handsome, bearded face! Kirby saw instantly that no
decay had touched it, that even the hairs of the beard were perfect. The
whole armor-clad corpse gleamed softly with a covering of the same
glassy substance which covered the rock.

Kirby glanced at his watch, saw that twelve minutes must elapse before
the geyser spouted again. Then his eyes narrowed. He remained standing
where he was, hard by the mouth of the tunnel, knowing that a wise man
would conduct cautiously his exploration of this valley of wonders.

Arsenic! Silicon!

The two words stood out sharply in his thought. In Africa existed plenty
of springs whose waters contained enough arsenic to bring death to those
who drank. Might not the Spaniard's presence here be explained, then, by
assuming that the geyser water was charged with a strong arsenic
content, and, in addition, with some sort of silicon solution which,
left to dry in the air, hardened to glass?

Lord, what a discovery to take back with him to Kansas! Almost it made
the discovery of the golden cylinder pale by comparison. Why, the
commercial uses to which this silicon water might be put were almost
without limit, and the owner of the concession might confidently expect
to make millions!

It was while Kirby stood there, breathless and jubilant, waiting for
the geyser to spout, that he began to feel that _he was being watched_.

Suddenly, with a start, he shot a sweeping glance over the whole grove.
But that did no good. He saw nothing save sunlight and waving green
leaves.

Eleven days were to pass before he discovered all that was to be
involved in that sensation of being gazed at by unseen eyes.


CHAPTER III

At the beginning of the eleventh morning in the valley, Kirby had again
posted himself close to the mouth of the black tunnel, and again felt
that hidden eyes were observing him.

But this morning differed from the first morning, because now, for the
first time, he was ready to do something about the watcher or watchers.
Exploration of the whole valley had not helped. Therefore, there lay at
his feet a considerable coil of rope, the manufacture of which from
plaited strands of the tough grass in his Eden had taken him whole days.
With what patience he could find, he was waiting for the gigantic spout
of milky-colored, perfumed water which would mean that the geyser had
gone off and would erupt no more for exactly forty-four minutes.

Eleven days in the valley!

While he waited, Kirby considered them. Who had made the beautiful
footprints beside him, when he had slept at last after his arrival here?
Why had so many of the queer, fuzzy topped shrubs with immense
yam-shaped roots, which grew here been taken away during that first
sleep, and during all his other periods of sleep? Who had taken them?
Early in his stay, he had learned that the tuberlike roots were good to
eat and would sustain life, and he supposed that the unseen people of
the valley took them for food. But who were these people of the valley?

Who had laid beside him during his first sleep the immense lily with
perfume like that which came with the milky geyser spray--that spray of
death and delight mingled? Why had someone scratched a line in the earth
from him directly to the distant orifice of the geyser? Was this, as he
believed, a signal to come not only to the edge of the orifice, _but to
lower himself down into its depths_? And if the line were intended as a
signal, did the persons who came to the valley while he slept, always
eluding him, wish him well or mean to do him harm?

Last question of all: had the beautiful girl's face he believed he had
seen just once, been real or an hallucination? It had been while he was
kneeling at the very edge of the geyser cone, staring down its many
colored throat, that the vision had appeared. Misty white amidst the
green gloom, the face had been turned up to him, smiling, its lips
forming a kiss, and its great eyes beckoning. Had the face been real or
a dream?

Eleven days in the valley! Now, with his braided rope ready at last, he
was going to do something which might help to answer his questions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby reached out and began to run his grass rope, yard by yard, through
his hands, searching carefully for any flaw. A canyon wren made the air
sweet above him, while the morning sun began to wink and blink against
the shadows which still lay against the face of the guardian cliffs.
Kirby glanced at his watch and got up.

Crossing beyond the mouth of the geyser, he grinned good morning at his
friend the Conquistadore, and marched on into the shade of the live oak
which grew nearest the geyser. Here he made one end of his rope fast to
the gnarled trunk, inspected his pistol, patted his tunic to make sure
that the cylinder of gold was safe, then stood by to await the geyser.

With the passing of three minutes there came from the still empty
orifice a sonorous rumbling. Kirby grinned.

From deep in the earth issued a sound of fizzing and bubbling, and
then, to the accompaniment of subterranean thunder, burst loose the
milky, upward column which had never ceased to awe the man who watched
so eagerly this morning. As the titanic jet leaped skyward now, the
slanting rays of the sun caught it, and turned the water, fanning out,
into a fire opal, into a sheet of living color.

Kirby, hard headed to the last, drew from the supply in one pocket of
his tunic, a strip of one of the tuberlike roots, and munched it.

The thunder ceased. The waters receded.

After that Kirby hesitated not a second. Promptly he moved forward,
flung his coil of line down into the geyser tunnel, and swung on to the
line. By the time he had swallowed the last bite of his breakfast, the
world he knew had been left behind, and he was climbing down to a new.

       *       *       *       *       *

It became at once apparent that the gorgeously colored, glassy-smooth
throat glowed with tints which were unfamiliar to him. He could perceive
these new shades of color, yet had no name for them.

As he stopped after fifty feet to breathe, the color phenomenon made him
wonder if the tuber roots he had been eating had affected his vision;
then decided they had not. In addition to food value, the roots had some
power to stimulate courage and a slight mental exhilaration. But the
drug had proved non-habit forming, and Kirby knew that his powers of
perception were not now, and never had been, affected.

He swung down further.

Just a moment after he begin that progress was when things began to
happen to him. First he heard what seemed to be the low titter of a
human voice laughing sweetly. Next came a far off, unutterably lovely
strumming of music. And then he realized that, at a depth of about a
hundred feet, he was hanging level with a hole which marked the mouth
of another tunnel.

This new tunnel sloped down into the earth on his right hand. The floor
and walls were glassy smooth, and the angle of descent was steep, but by
no means as steep as the drop of the vertical geyser shaft in which he
now hung.

Laughter, music, the new tunnel suddenly aroused an excitement which
made him quiver.

"When I saw _her_," he gasped, "she was standing here, in the mouth of
this tunnel, looking up at me!"

Violently, Freddie Kirby forgot the maple-shaded street of his Kansas
town, forgot everything but desire to reach the mouth of the new tunnel,
where the girl of the exquisite face and beckoning lips had stood.
Tightening his grip on the rope, he began to swing himself back and
forth like a pendulum.

It seemed probable that when the geyser water shot up past the
horizontal tunnel, its force was so great that no water at all entered.
He redoubled his efforts to widen his swing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then his feet scraped on the floor, and in a second he had alighted
there. He still hung stoutly to his line, however, for the tunnel sloped
down sharply enough, and was slippery enough, to prohibit the
maintenance of footing unaided.

The music which issued from the depths of that stunningly mysterious
passage swelled to a crescendo--and stopped. Kirby clung there to his
precarious perch, his feet slipping on the glass under them with every
move he made, and feelings stirred in his heart which had never been
there before.

Then, as silence reigned where the music had been, something prompted
him to look up. The next instant he stifled a cry.

With widening eyes he saw the flash of a white arm and the gleam of a
knife hovering over the spot where his taut rope passed out of the
geyser opening into the sunshine of the outer world. Again he stifled a
cry. For crying out would do no good. While the suppressed sound was
still on his lips, the knife flickered.

Then Kirby was shooting downward, the severed line whipping out after
him. The first plunge flung him off his feet. A long swoop which he took
on his back dizzied him. But as the fall continued, he was able to slow
it a little by bracing arms and legs against the tunnel walls.

"Holy Jeehosophat!" he gurgled.

But there seemed to be no particular danger. The slide was as smooth as
most of the chutes he had ever encountered at summer swimming pools. If
ever the confounded spiral passage came to an end, he might find that he
was still all right. As seconds passed and he fell and fell, it seemed
that he was bound for the center of the earth. It seemed that--

       *       *       *       *       *

He swished around a multiple bend, and eyes which had been accustomed to
darkness were blinded by light.

It was light which radiated in all colors--blue, yellow, browns,
purples, reds, pinks, and then all the new colors for which he had no
name. Somehow Kirby knew that he had shot out of the tunnel, which
emerged high up in the face of a cliff, and that he was dropping through
perfumed, brilliant air resonant with the sound of birds and insects and
human cries. The funny thing was that the pull of gravity was not right,
somehow, and he was dropping fairly slowly. From far below, a body of
what looked like water was sweeping up to meet him. Kirby closed his
eyes.

When he opened them again, his whole body was stinging with the slap of
his impact, and he found that it was water which he had struck. The
proof of it lay in the fact that he was swimming, and was approaching a
shore.

But such water! It was milky white and perfumed as the geyser flow had
been, and it seemed luminous as with a radium fire. Had he not realized
presently that the fluid probably contained enough arsenic to finish a
thousand like him, he would have thought of himself as bathing in the
waters of Paradise.

But then he began to forget about the poison which might already be at
work upon him.

Ahead of him, stretched out in the gorgeous, colored light, ran a beach
which was backed by heavy jungle. And on the beach stood the lovely
creatures, all clad in shimmering, glistening garments, whose flutelike
cries had come to him as he fell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby looked, and became almost powerless to continue his swim. The
beauty of those frail women was like the reputed beauty of bright
angels. That paralyzing effect of wonder, however, did not last long.

The girls moved forward to the water's edge, and, laughing amongst
themselves, beckoned to him with lovely slender hands whose every motion
was a caress.

"Be not afraid," called one in a curious patois dialect, about
five-sixths of which seemed made up of Spanish words, distorted but
recognizable.

"The water would kill you," called another, "as it killed the Spaniard
in armor. But we are here to save you. I will give you a draught to
drink which will defeat the poison. Come on to us!"

Kirby's heart was almost literally in his mouth now, because the girl
who promised him salvation was she whose lips had formed a kiss at him
from the green-gloomy throat of the geyser.

His feet struck a shale bottom. Panting, he stood up and was conscious
of the fact that despite his forlornly dripping and dishevelled
condition, he was tall and straight and big, and that for some reason
all of the girls on the gleaming sand, and one girl in particular, were
anxious to receive him here.

The one girl had drawn a small, gleaming flask of gold from the misty
bodice of her gown, and was holding it out while she laughed with red
lips and great, dazzling dark eyes.

"_Pronto!_" she called in pure Spanish, and other girls echoed the word.
"Oh," went on the bright owner of the flask, "we thought you would
_never_ have done with your work on the rope. It took you so long!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby left the smooth lake behind him and stood dripping on the sand.
The moment the air touched his clothes, he felt that they were
stiffening slightly. Yet the sensation brought no terror. He could not
feel terror as he faced the girls.

"Give him the flask, Naida!" someone exclaimed.

"Ah, but the Gods _have_ been kind to us!" echoed another.

The girl with the flask made a gesture for silence.

"Is it Naida you are called?" Kirby put in quickly, and as he spoke the
Spanish words, the roll of them on his tongue did much to make him know
that he was sane and awake, and not dreaming, that this was still the
Twentieth Century, and that he was Freddie Kirby.

Answering his question, Naida nodded, and gave him the flask.

"A single draught will act as antidote to the poison," she said.

"I drink," said Kirby as he raised the flask, "to the many of you who
have been so gracious as to save me!"

A flashing smile, a blush was his answer. And then he had wetted his
lips with, and was swallowing, a limpid liquid which tasted of some
drug.

"Enough!" Naida ordered in a second.

As she reached for the flask, her companions closed in as though a
ceremony of some sort had been completed.

"Is it time to tell him yet, Naida?" piped one of the girls, younger
than the rest, whom someone had called Elana.

"Oh, _do_ begin, Naida," chorused two more. "We can't wait _much_ longer
to find out if he is going to help us!"

Kirby turned to Naida, while a soothing sensation crept through him from
the draught he had taken.

"Pray tell me what it is that I am to be permitted to do for you. I
can promise you that the whole of my life and strength, and such
intelligence as I possess, is yours to command."

       *       *       *       *       *

Excited small cries and a clapping of hands answered him. As for Naida,
her face lighted with glowing joy.

"Oh, one who could say that, _must_ be the friend and protector of whom
we have stood in such bitter need!"

"What," asked Kirby, "is this need which made one of you cut my rope, so
that I should come here?"

A momentary silence was broken only by the hum of insects in the
perfumed air, and by the golden thrilling of a bird back in the jungle.
Then Kirby beheld Naida bowing to him.

"So be it," she said in a voice low and flutelike. "I will speak now
since you request it. Already you have seen that you are here in our
world because we conspired amongst ourselves to bring you here. Our
reason--"

She paused, looked deep into his eyes.

"Amigo," she continued slowly, "we whom you see here are the People of
the Temple. For more centuries than even our sages can tell, our
progenitors have dwelt here, where you find us, knowing always of your
outer world, but remaining always unknown by it. But now the time has
come when those of us who are left amongst our race need the help of one
from the outer races we have shunned. Dangers of various orders confront
us who have waited here for your coming. When we first discovered you in
the Valley of the Geyser, the idea came to me that we must make you
understand our troubles, and ask of you--"

But then she stopped.

As Kirby stared at her, the gentleness of her expression was replaced by
a swift strength which made her majestic.

The next moment bedlam reigned upon the beach.

"_They are after us!_" gasped one of the girls in terror. "Quick, Naida!
Quick! Quick!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever it was that threatened, Naida did not need to be told that the
need for action was pressing. She shouted at her companions some order
which Kirby did not understand. From a pouch at her side, she snatched
out a greyish, spherical vegetable substance which looked almost like a
tennis ball. Then she braced herself as if to withstand an assault.

"Stand back!" she cried to Kirby.

He had long ago ceased to wonder at anything that might happen here.
Disappointed that Naida's story had been interrupted, wondering what was
wrong, he obeyed Naida's order to keep clear.

As he fell back and stood motionless, there came from behind a dense
screen of shrubs which would have resembled aloe and prickly pear
bushes, save that they were as big as oak trees, a ghastly howling. The
next second, hopped and hurtled across the beach toward the girls, a
group of hair-covered, shaggy creatures which were neither apes nor men.
The faces, contorted with lust, were hideously leathery and brown, the
foreheads small and beetling, and the mouths enormous, with immense
yellow teeth.

Helpless, Kirby realized that Naida and all the others had clapped over
their faces curious masks which seemed to be made of some crystalline
substance, and that now others had armed themselves with the tennis
balls. And that was the last observation he made before the battle
opened furiously.

With a cry muffled behind her mask, Naida leaped out in front of her
squadron and cut loose her queer vegetable ball with whizzing aim and
force.

Full into the snarling face of one of the ape-men the thing smashed,
filling the air all about the creature with a yellow, mistlike powder.
Kirby was half deafened by the yells of rage and terror which went up
from the entire attacking band. The creature who had been hit fell to
his knees the while he made agonized tearing movements at his face and
uttered shrill, jabbering yelps.

Other balls flashed instantly from Naida's ranks, and each brought about
the same ghastly result as the first. But then Kirby saw that the whole
jungle seethed with the hairy, awful men.

"Keep back!" Naida shrieked at him through her mask. "We have no mask
for you. If the powder from our fungi touches you, it will be the end!"

       *       *       *       *       *

With gaps in the advancing line filled as soon as each screeching ape
went down, the attackers leaped on until Kirby knew they would be upon
the girls in a matter of seconds. A sweat broke out on his neck.

But then an idea gripped him, and suddenly, without even a last glance
at Naida, he leaped away even as she had commanded.

A great boulder lay on the shore fifty yards away. Toward it Kirby
streaked as though he had become coward. But he had not turned coward.

By the time he reached the shelter which would protect him from the
fungus mist, a turning point had come in the battle. The ape-men had
closed in on the girls, were swarming about them, and the mist balls had
almost ceased to fly. But the thing which gave Kirby hope was that the
apes were not attempting to harm the girls. They seemed victors, but
they were not committing atrocities.

It was the sharp intuition that something like this might happen which
had sent Kirby fleeing from the fight. He believed he might yet prove
useful.

The thickest group of attackers were jostling about Naida. As the
screams and sobs of the girls quivered out, mingled with the guttural
roaring of the men, Naida was shut off by a solid wall of aggressors.

Then Kirby saw her again. But now two of the most powerful of the
ape-men had caught her up and was carrying her. Her kicking and writhing
and biting accomplished nothing. The apes were headed directly back to
the jungle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, however, most of the yellow mist had disappeared, and that was all
Kirby had been waiting for. With a growling shout, he tore out from
behind his boulder, his Luger ready. Naida's captors were in full
retreat, and other pairs of men were snatching up other girls and
hopping after them. Toward Naida Kirby ran madly but not blindly.

"Naida! Naida!" he bellowed.

He got in two strides for every one the apes made.

"Naida!" he shouted, and at last saw her look at him.

Her face was pallid with loathing and terror. As her glimmering dark
eyes met his, they flashed a plea which made his heart thrash against
his lungs.

With a final roar of encouragement Kirby closed in on the hair-covered
men, and fired instantly a shot which caught one full in the heart. The
creature wavered on its legs, looked at the unexpected enemy with
dismayed, swinish little red eyes, and relaxing his hold upon Naida,
dropped without making a sound.

After that--

But suddenly Kirby found himself unable to comprehend fully the other
terrific results of his intervention. Before the echoes of his shot
died, there came to him the rumble of what seemed to be tons of falling
rock. In the bright air a slight mist was precipitated. To all of which
was added the effect upon the ape-men of fear of a weapon and a type of
fighter utterly new to them.

Kirby had fired believing that he would have to fight other ape-men
when the first fell. But not so. Instead of that--

       *       *       *       *       *

He blinked rapidly as he took in the scene.

Naida had been released. Lying on the sand beside the dead ape-man, she
was looking up at him in stupefied wonder. And her other captor, instead
of remaining to fight, had clapped shaggy hands over his ears, and was
leaping headlong for the protection of the jungle!

Moreover, the soprano cries of the girls and the deep howls of the men
were rising everywhere, and everywhere the ape-men were dropping their
captives and plunging away after their leader.

"Huh," Kirby muttered aloud, and wondered what the citizens of Kansas
would have to say about _this_.

Naida looked at the dead and bleeding ape-man and shuddered, and then at
the score or so of others brought down by the puff balls. Then she
looked up at Kirby, raised her arms for his support, and smiled up into
his brown face.

Kirby forgot Kansas, lifted her, warm and alive, radiantly beautiful, in
his arms.

"Our friends the enemies," she whispered as she remained for a second in
his embrace and then drew away, "will attack no more this day--thanks to
you."

There was no possible need for another shot, Kirby saw. In terrified
silence, the first of the apes had already floundered behind the prickly
pear and aloe bushes, and the last stragglers were using all the power
in their legs to catch up. On the beach, Naida's followers were picking
themselves up, and already a few of them had burst into ringing
laughter.

"Come on, all of you," Naida said to them, and, including Kirby in her
glance, added, "We may as well go to the caciques now, and have it over
with."


CHAPTER IV

It was with Naida at his side and the other girls grouped about them,
that they started their journey to the "caciques," whoever they might
be, "to have it over with," whatever that might mean. As they strode
along in silence, Kirby did what he could to straighten out in his mind
the many curious things which had happened since he sat testing his rope
in the upper world this morning.

In final analysis, it seemed to him that, extraordinary as his
experience had been, there was nothing so much out of the way about it,
after all. The only unusual thing was the existence of this inhabited
pocket in the earth. For the rest, the strange colors to which he could
not put a name, were simply some manifestation of infra-reds and
ultra-violets. And then the startling effect of his single shot at the
ape-men--that was simply the old story of savage creatures running from
a new weapon and a new enemy; naturally the shot had sounded loud in
this enclosed cavern. Lastly, the pull of gravity down here seemed upset
somehow. But why should it not seem so, at this distance within the
earth? The American was no scientist; the conclusions he reached seemed
very reasonable to him.

All told, the last thing Kirby found he needed to do was pinch himself
to see if he was awake.

A place of indefinite extent, the cavern seemed to be exactly what he
had already judged it--a giant pocket within the earth. The ceiling, or
the sky, was of some kind of natural glass--no doubt the same kind which
was crackling on his clothes now--and from it emanated the brilliant,
many colored glow which lighted the cavern. Radium? Perhaps it was that.
Perhaps the rays were cast off from some other element even less
understood than mysterious radium. As for the plant and animal life with
which the cavern teemed, it was amazing.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Kirby did not give himself up to silent observation any longer.

"Will you finish telling me," he asked of Naida, "about the task I am to
perform for you here?"

Naida, walking with lithe strides along a path jungle-hemmed on both
sides, smiled at him.

"You are to be our leader."

"Yes?"

Now both Naida and the other girls became sober.

"You will lead us in a revolt."

"Ah!" Kirby whistled softly.

"In a revolt against the caciques--the wise men--whose kind have
governed the People of the Temple since the beginning."

Her statement was received with acclaim by the whole troop, who crowded
close around, the while they smiled at Kirby.

"You mean I am to lead a revolt," he asked, "against these same caciques
whom we are going now to face?"

Naida nodded emphatically.

"Yes, if revolt proves necessary. And it probably will."

"Hum." Kirby scratched behind his ear. "You'd better tell me what you
can about it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, as they hurried on, Naida spoke rapidly.

The situation before the People of the Temple was that for a long time
now, the only children to be born had been girls. Worse still, not even
a girl had been born during a period equal to sixteen upper-world years.
The only remaining members of a race which had flourished in this
underground land for countless thousands of years, consisted of the
caciques, a handful of aged people, and the thirty-four girls, including
Naida, who accompanied Kirby now.

On one hand was promised extinction through lack of reproduction. On the
other, even swifter and more terrible extinction at the hands of the
ape-men, whom Naida called the Worshippers of Xlotli, the Rabbit God,
the God of all bestiality and drunkenness.

It was the menace of the ape-men, rather than the less appalling one of
lack of reproduction, which was making the most trouble now. Ages ago,
when the People of the Temple had flourished as a race, they had been
untroubled by the Worshippers of Xlotli. But now the ape-men were by far
the stronger; and they desired the girls who had been born as the last
generation of an ancient race. The battle of this morning had been only
one of many.

Dissension between the caciques, who ruled the People of the Temple, and
their girl subjects, had arisen on the subject of the best way of
dealing with the ape-man menace.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some time ago, Naida, heading a council of all the girls, had proposed
to the caciques that support be sought amongst the people of the upper
world. This would be done judiciously, by bringing to the lower realm a
few men who were wise and strong, men who would make good husbands, and
who could fight the ape-men.

This proposal the priests had promptly quashed. They would never
receive, they said, any members of the teeming outer races from whom the
People of the Temple had so long been hidden. Those few who had
blundered into the Valley of the Geyser during the centuries, and who
had never escaped, were enough. Better, said the caciques, that a
compromise be arranged with the subjects of the Rabbit God.

Flatly then, the priests had proposed that some of the girls, the number
to be specified later, should be given to the ape-men, and peace won.
During the time of reprieve which would thus be afforded, prayers and
sacrifices could be offered the Lords of the Sun and Moon, and to
Quetzalcoatl, the Feathered Serpent. In answer to these prayers, the
Gods would surely send the aged people who alone were left as
prospective parents, a generation of sons.

Once the priests' program of giving up some of the girls to the ape-men
had been made definite, it had not taken Naida and the others long to
decide that they would never submit. And then, while matters were at an
acute stage, a tall, blond white man had come to the Valley of the
Geyser--Kirby.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Naida had finished her story, Kirby mustered a smile despite the
soberness which had come upon him.

"So the white man came," he repeated after her, "and all of you decided
forthwith to stage your revolt."

"Why not?" Naida answered. "We observed you until we were sure you
possessed the qualities of leadership we wanted. After that, we did what
we could to coax you to come here."

Kirby grinned at that.

"Now," Naida ended simply, "we will go to the caciques. If they accept
you, and grant our requests to them, there will be peace. If they rage,
it will be war."

Suddenly she drew closer to Kirby as they swung along, and slipped her
hand into his, looking up at him in silent entreaty.

"How much farther," he asked in a voice which became sharp, "until we
reach the headquarters of these caciques?"

"They live in a castle which our ancestors built ages ago on a protected
plateau," Naida answered tensely. "It is a good distance still, but we
will cover it soon enough."

They crossed now one edge of a shadow-filled forest composed principally
of immense, pallid palmlike trees. Farther on, the path wound through a
belt of swampy land covered by gigantic reeds which rustled above their
heads with a glassy sound, and by things which looked like the cat-tails
of the upper world, but were a hundred times larger. Everywhere hovered
odd little creatures like birds, but with teeth in their long snouts and
small frondlike growths on each side of their tails. About some swamp
plants with very large blooms resembling passion flowers, flitted dragon
flies of jeweled hues and enormous size, and under the flowers hopped
strange toadlike creatures equipped with two pair of gauzy wings.

       *       *       *       *       *

Finally, through a tunnel composed of ferns a hundred feet high, they
emerged to a still densely overgrown but higher country which Naida said
was a part of the Rorroh forest.

In the forest, Kirby gained a hazy impression of bronzy, immense cycads
and what appeared to be tree chrysophilums with gorgeous blossoms. Then
he received a much clearer impression of other trees with blossoms of
bright orange yellow and very thick petals, each tipped with a glassy
sharp point. The disconcerting thing about the tree was that, as they
approached, the scaly limbs began to tremble and wave, and suddenly
lashed out as though making a human effort to snatch at the bright
travelers.

Naida and all the others hurried along without offering comment, and
Kirby asked no questions.

Once he thought he saw a group of gorilla creatures parallelling their
course back amongst the forest growth, but if Naida observed the
animals, she paid no attention. The one thing which had any effect upon
the company was the appearance, presently, of two vast, birdlike
creatures. As these things approached, Naida signaled to all to crouch
beneath the shelter of a tall rock beside the path.

Enormous, the birds had bat wings, and carried with them, as they
approached, the stink of putrid flesh. The long beaks were overfull of
sharp teeth. The heads, set upon bodies of glistening white-grey, were
black. Reddish grey eyes searched the jungle as the creatures flapped
along. But, the Pterodactyls--if they were that--passed above Naida's
band without offering attack, and presently Naida gave the command to
advance again.

       *       *       *       *       *

In time, they came to a chasmlike gorge across which was suspended
a slender long thread of a bridge. Not far above the bridge, a
considerable river emptied itself into the gorge in a mirrorlike
ribbon. Kirby could not hear the torrent fall--or rather could not
hear it strike any solid bottom. But from somewhere in the unlighted,
unfathomed depths of the abyss rose strange bubbling and whistling
sounds.

At the bridge, Naida paused and pointed to the land across the river.
And as Kirby looked in the direction indicated, he beheld a rocky
eminence rising for several hundred feet straight up from the expanse of
a level, tree and grass covered plain. Atop of the plateau, glimmered
the complex towers and turrets, the crenellated walls of a castle which,
in its grey antiquity, seemed as old as the race of men.

"It is behind those walls that the caciques dwell," Naida said quickly.
"It is behind the castle, in a series of separate houses, that the older
members of the race dwell. We shall go and look upon them presently. But
first we will force an interview with the caciques."

In silence Kirby took her hand, and, with the others following, they
moved out upon the swaying, perilous causeway which hung above the
chasm. After that, the trip across the plain to the foot of the plateau
cliffs was quickly accomplished.

Here, however, Kirby thought they must face trouble, for he found that
the great walls, of a sparkling, almost glassy smoothness, shot up to a
height of at least three hundred feet, and that no path of any sort was
visible.

"We're here," he said, "but how can we get up?"

       *       *       *       *       *

But understanding began to dawn as Naida laughed, and produced from the
pouch at the side of her gauzy dress four pliable discs of a substance
which resembled rubber.

"You are very strong, are you not?" she asked.

"Yes."

"Then you will have no trouble in following us up the cliff. Our Serpent
God, Quetzalcoatl, taught us how to climb long ago."

With that she handed Kirby the set of vacuum discs, and producing
another for herself, moistened them in a pool of water close at hand.
Then, as all of the girls followed her action, she strapped them to her
hands and feet, and in a moment they had begun the ascent.

"Why," Kirby said presently, "with these things you could hang by your
feet and walk on a smooth ceiling!"

Naida laughed, and they worked their way upward.

When the climb was accomplished and the discs were put away, Kirby found
himself standing on the outer edge of a mediaeval paradise, of a
magnificent plateau partly fortified by nature, partly by the hand of
man.

"Ah!" he cried in deep admiration, then followed Naida.

The building--the castle--in the near distance, resembled a castle of
Spain, save that there was greater beauty and subtlety of architecture.
Turreted on all four corners, constructed of material which looked like
blocks of natural glass, the fairylike structure was crowned by a
gigantic tower of something which resembled obsidian. Up and up this
tower soared until its gleaming black tip seemed almost to touch the
glassy-radiant sky of the cavern.

No people showed themselves, and Kirby saw that the bronze-studded
portals set in the front of the castle were closed.

Admiringly, he glanced at the surrounding land laid out in checkerboard
patches of gardens and orchards where grew a bewildering variety of
unknown fruits and blooms. Butterflies drifted past, and the air was
freighted with the scent of flowers. Inside a walled enclosure, Kirby
saw a good-sized plot heavily grown with the plant on which he had been
subsisting. As they passed this ground, each of the girls, Naida
leading, made a strange little bowing, gliding genuflection, and Kirby
wondered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, however, new sights distracted him as they crossed a port
drawbridge above a deep moat which was a fairyland of aquatic plants.
Although not a sound had come from the castle, the great entrance doors
were swinging back.

"Be ready," Naida whispered, "for almost anything. The doors are being
opened by some of the palace guard. I have little doubt that word was
long ago rushed to the caciques that we are come to them with an
upper-world man!"

Kirby answered with a nod. Then they passed the outer doors, passed
inside, and Kirby blinked at what he saw.

In a long hall decorated bewilderingly with a carven frieze in which
appeared all of the symbols common to early Mexican religions, and many
new ones, stood a row of bright suits of armor of the Sixteenth Century.
From each suit peered the glassy face and shovel beard of a dead
Conquistadore.

So this was what happened to intruders from the upper world! The
Conquistadore who kept his long watch beside the geyser was not the only
one! Kirby felt an involuntary chill prickle up his back. But he was not
given long to think before Naida, ignoring the gruesome array, clasped
his arm.

"Look! Behold!"

And Kirby saw that with almost magical silence the whole wall at the end
of the corridor was sliding back to reveal an enormous amphitheatre in
the center of which stood a vast circular table. Ranged in a semicircle
about that table, stood fifteen incredibly ancient men clad in long,
glistening grey robes. Blanched beards trailed down the front of the
garments until they all but touched the floor.

The caciques!

Kirby, on the threshold of the amphitheatre, squared his shoulders and
held his head high. Then with Naida on his right, his own eyes boring
unyieldingly into the smouldering, narrowed eyes which stared at him, he
advanced.

But in front of him the priests moved suddenly. From Naida burst a
shriek. In the radiant glare of the council room flashed the long, thin,
cruel blade of a sacrificial knife.

The cacique who had whipped it from his robe flew at Kirby with a condor
swoop, talon-hands outstretched, his wrinkled, bearded face contorted
with fury.


CHAPTER V

Before Kirby was more than half set to fight, the priest was clawing at
his throat, and a gnarled old fist was poised to drive the knife in a
death stroke.

Kirby did the only thing he could do quickly--sprang to one side. The
move saved him. The knife whipped past his shoulder, and the cacique
nearly fell. But it had been a close enough squeak for all that.

Nor was it over. After Kirby the priest sprang with unexpected agility,
and before Kirby could snatch at his pistol the talon-hands were lunging
at his throat once more.

With the gasps of the girls ringing in his ears, Kirby bunched himself
for another side leap only to find the cacique all over him like an
octopus. Momentarily the knife hung above his chest, and Kirby, dismayed
at the powers of his opponent, almost felt that the thing must plunge
before he could break the octopus hold.

But he had no intention of being defeated, and now he was getting used
to the fight. The priest's left arm swiftly clenched about his neck and
shoulders, and the right arm, with the knife, attempted a drive through
to the heart. Suddenly, however, Kirby lurched sideways and backward,
and as the octopus grip slackened for a flash, he himself got a
wrestler's grip that left him ready to do business. As the priest broke
free, he slid around in an attempt to fasten himself on Kirby's back.
Quickly, tensely Kirby doubled, and knew that he had done enough. The
cacique shot over his shoulders, described a somersault in midair, and
landed with a sharp crack of head and shoulders against unyielding
stone.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the semicircle of other priests went up a gasp. From Naida came a
strangled cry of joy. Kirby made one leap for the knife which had fallen
from the cacique's hand as he slumped into unconsciousness, and then he
straightened up with the weapon safe in his possession.

"There, you old billygoat," he croaked in English, "maybe you won't try
any more fast ones for awhile."

A second later he stepped over the sprawled body to stand beside Naida.

Upon the wrinkled countenances of the remaining caciques was stamped a
look of dismay and hatred which boded no good. It was plain to Kirby
that in battering up the man detailed to kill him, he had committed a
desecration of first order.

"Is there anyone else who cares to fight?" he flung at them in Spanish,
showing a contempt as great as their rage.

The response he got was instant. From one old gullet, then from others,
came choking, snarling sounds which presently became words. By those
words Kirby heard himself cursed with a vituperation which made him,
even in his temporary triumph, feel grave.

But he did not let that soberness trouble him long. For the main point
now was that no one made a move to fight further, which was what he had
expected. He had flung them the challenge, knowing that he was possessed
of their knife, and suspecting that it was their only weapon. The belief
that no one would care to try a barehanded conflict, no matter what
insult was waiting to be avenged, seemed justified as none of the
caciques advanced, and as even the cursing presently ceased.

"No?" Kirby asked. "There is to be no more fighting?"

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the caciques now came forward a few steps.

"No," he answered with a lameness which was not to be denied. "But you,
a criminal interloper in our realm, have been marked as a victim for
sacrifice, and from this there is no power in the universe which can
save you."

Kirby, after a reassuring glance at Naida, looked at the floored priest
who was sitting up now, looking stupidly about, and feeling himself all
over, and Kirby suppressed a grin.

"Ah, I am to be sacrificed, eh? But what happens until that time comes?
Listen my Wise Ones--"

He stabbed a finger at them, and his eyes flashed.

"Listen! What you mean to say is that I have defeated you, and you must
lay off me until you can launch another attack. But I have a few things
to say to that. One is that I am not going to permit myself to _be_
sacrificed. Another is that I demand, right here and now, that you begin
to discuss with me certain agreements which are going to regulate the
future conduct of affairs in this world to which I have come."

A low exclamation answered that, but it came from no priest. They
remained sullen and staggered. It was Naida who murmured, and there was
excitement and pleasure in her voice. Suddenly she placed her lips
against Kirby's ear.

"You must not treat with them," she said. "Tell them you want to see the
Duca, and will destroy them all unless he comes!"

Understanding burst over Kirby. The Duca! Then these men were only the
representatives of a High Priest, the Duca!

"Yes," he repeated resolutely to the assembled greybeards, "a meeting is
going to be held in this chamber of council at once. But I will not
deal with you! Do you understand me? I must see the Duca. I leave it to
you to decide whether you will summon him, or force me to fight my way
through to wherever he is staying."

"The Duca!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The words burst in dismay from the gimlet-eyed cacique who had said
there would be no more fighting. He looked at Naida, well aware of the
fact that it was her interference which had made Kirby extend his
demand. And his look was black.

Kirby slid between Naida and the cacique.

"Yes," he spat out, "the Duca! Will you summon him, or--"

He did not repeat what he would do as an alternative. A second passed in
silence. It seemed as if the cacique who had been speaking was ready to
burst.

"Answer me!" Kirby thundered.

And then the priest obeyed.

"Very well," he growled in a voice which quaked with rage. "I obey. But
you will wish you had never made the demand!"

The next second he swung on his heel, and leaving his company behind as
a guard, headed toward a stair which led upward from one side of the
amphitheatre, and which was protected by a door of heavy, grilled metal
work. The stairway seemed to be spiral, and was all enclosed. Kirby
realized that it must lead into the tall and beautiful tower of obsidion
which he had seen outside.

"Oh," Naida whispered as looks and smiles of approval came from all of
the girls, "you have been magnificent! Mark now, what we must do. You
must be the one to state our terms, because you have already won a
victory for us. Tell the Duca that we will not submit to any compromise
with the ape-men, and least of all will we let any of our number go to
the ape-men."

A deep flush crept into Kirby's cheeks at thought of what he would like
to do to the man who had proposed that sacrifice.

"Then tell him," Naida continued, "that we want men brought to our world
from the world above. And finally tell him we will live under his
dictatorship no longer, and hereafter demand a voice in all councils
affecting temporal affairs."

"All right," Kirby spoke grimly. "I'll tell him. Naida, is this high
priest we're waiting for, the one who proposed sacrifice of some of you
to the apes?"

Naida nodded.

       *       *       *       *       *

Next moment, she, Kirby, and all the others, including the row of
glowering caciques, became silent. At sounds from above, all looked
toward the grilled doorway to the tower. Then Kirby realized that all of
the girls, as well as the caciques, were dropping to their knees.

"No!" he commanded quickly. "Get up! You must not abase--"

He had not finished, and Naida had scarcely risen, when the heavy door
swung on noiseless hinges.

The light in the amphitheatre seemed to become more intense. Then,
against the great glow, Kirby beheld majesty, beheld one who represented
the apotheosis of priestly rank and power.

Clad in robes of filmy material which glimmered white beside the gray
robes of his underlings, the Duca wore about his waist the living flame
of a girdle composed of alternate cut diamonds and blood red rubies each
larger than a golf ball. And Kirby, searching for comparisons, realized
that the Duca's face, upheld to others, would be as remarkable as his
jewels must be when compared to ordinary gems. It was a chiseled face,
seamed by a thousand wrinkles, which a god might have carved from ivory
before endowing it with the flush and glow of life. A mane of snow white
hair cascaded back from a tremendous forehead to fall about thin but
square shoulders and mingle with the downward sweep of pure white
beard. The eyes, black as polished jet, flamed now with the glare of
baleful fires.

As Naida, stealing close to Kirby, trembled, and even the abased
caciques trembled, Kirby himself felt as if icy water was trickling over
him.

He fought the sensation off. For suddenly he knew that in spite of first
impressions which made the man seem a living god, the old Duca was
human. And what was more, he was in the wrong. All of which being true,
the thing to do was keep a level head and fight.

       *       *       *       *       *

All at once Kirby spoke across the silence in the great room.

"I have sent for you," he said, weighing words carefully.

"And I,"--the Duca's voice was mellow and deep--"have come. But I am not
here because you summoned me."

"Oh!" Kirby let sarcasm edge his words. "Well, I won't quibble about
your motives for coming. Did my messenger tell you why we are here and
demand your presence?"

"Your messenger," the old man said calmly, "told me."

"Very well. Do you consent to listen to Naida's and my terms? If you
_will_ listen--"

"But wait a moment," the Duca interrupted, still calmly, but with a look
in his eyes which Kirby did not like. "Are you asking _me_, to my face,
whether I will listen to terms which you offer as self-styled victor of
a battle with my caciques?"

Kirby nodded. His apprehension increased.

"Ah," said the Duca softly. And then, amazingly, a smile deepened every
wrinkle of his parchment face. "But do you not remember that I said I
had _not_ come here because you summoned me?"

"Yes," Kirby said solidly. "I remember very well."

"The thing which brought me here was the failure of my followers to
accomplish an assignment which I had given them--namely, that of ending
your life."

"Hum." Kirby scratched behind his ear. "You are _not_ interested in
arranging terms of peace, then."

"I am here,"--suddenly the Duca's voice filled the room--"to do that
which my priests were unable to do. And the moment has come when the
Gods will no longer trifle with you. You dog! You thieving intruder!
You--"

Swiftly the Duca plunged one withered but still powerful hand into the
folds of his robe above the flaming girdle. Then his hand flashed out,
and in it he held--

       *       *       *       *       *

But Kirby did not get to see.

A strangled cry of terror smote his ears. Naida leaped toward him from
one side, while Elana, the lovely youngest girl, sprang from another
direction, hurled Naida aside, and stopped in front of Kirby.

Through the glaring room flickered a tiny red serpentine creature which
the Duca hurled from a crystalline tube in his hand. As the minute snake
struck Elana's breast, she gave a choked cough, and then, as she half
turned to smile at both Naida and Kirby over her shoulder, her eyes went
blank, and she collapsed gently to the polished stones of the
floor--dead.

A second later came squirming out from under her the ghastly, glimmering
little snake which had struck.

Slowly, while every mortal in the room stood paralyzed, Kirby stepped
forward and set his heel upon the writhing thing. When he raised his
boot, the snake was only a blotch on the floor.

The Duca was standing as still as girls and caciques. The laughter with
which he had started to greet what he had thought would be Kirby's
extermination had faded to a look of wonder--and fear. He was an easy
mark.

Up to him Kirby rolled, and with all the force of soul and muscular
body, drove his fist into the Duca's face.

"By God," he roared, "you want war, and you shall have it!"

The Duca was simply out--not dead. Since Kirby did not want him dead, he
did not strike again, but swung back from the sprawled body, faced
Naida, and pointed to the tower door.

"Up there!" he snapped. "Seize the tower. I have a reason!"

At the Duca's crashing downfall, had come to the caciques a tension
which made Kirby know they would not be dummy figures much longer. His
eyes never left them.

"Quick, Naida!" he snapped again. "We must hold the tower!"

Naida, all of the girls, were staring dazedly at Elana, dead.

"The tower!" she choked. "But we cannot go there. It is the Duca's!"

"Because it is the Duca's," Kirby said firmly, "is exactly why we must
hold it. Come, Naida, please--"

       *       *       *       *       *

And then he saw comprehension begin to dawn at last.

He also saw two of the caciques glide from the wooden line, and slink
toward him past the unconscious Duca, stealthily.

As Naida suddenly cried out to her companions, pushed at two of them,
and then darted like rainbow nymph toward the silent and forbidding
upward spiral of steps, Kirby faced the gliding caciques.

One he clutched with viselike hands, and lifted him. As the other
shrieked and sprang, he was mowed down by the hurtling body of his
fellow priest which Kirby flung forward mightily.

The rest of the caciques were howling. While Naida waited beside the
tower door, the other girls flashed up the steps. The Duca still lay
where he had fallen, a thread of blood oozing from his mouth. Kirby,
after his last look over all, solemnly stooped and gathered in his arms
the limp, radiant little body of the girl who had given her life that
her friends might be left with a leader.

A moment later, he was standing on the steps. Naida, unopposed by the
still stupefied caciques, swung shut the tower door and shot a double
bolt.

"Naida--" Kirby whispered as he held Elana closer to him, "oh, I am so
sorry that we could have won only at such a price."

As Naida stooped to kiss the pale little forehead with its halo of
golden hair, sobs came. But then she raised her eyes, and they were, for
Kirby, alight with the message that she could and would accept Elana's
sacrifice, because she would gladly have made it herself.

"We will not forget," she whispered. "Carry her tenderly, and come."

For better, for worse, the Duca's tower was theirs.


CHAPTER VI

At the end of an hour, Kirby was taking a turn of guard duty at the foot
of the steps, while the others remained with Elana in a chamber above.
To Kirby, with things thus far along, it seemed that the seizure of the
tower had proved a shrewd stroke.

It seemed that the tower was to the Duca what hair was to Sampson. From
Naida had come the information that the Duca lived hidden within the
great shaft of obsidion, and appeared but seldom even before his
caciques. Apparently a large part of his hold upon his subjects was
maintained by the mystery with which he kept himself surrounded. And now
his retreat was lost to him! Such had been the moral effect of the loss
upon both Duca and caciques, that his whole first hour had gone by
without their doing anything.

Kirby, standing just around the first turn of the winding stairway,
presently cocked his ears to listen to the conclave being held in the
amphitheatre.

"Why not starve them out, O Holy One?" he heard one of the caciques ask
of the Duca, only to be answered by a growl of negation.

The Duca, Kirby had gathered before this, wanted to fight.

"But there is no food in the tower, is there?" the cacique still pressed
on, and this time he was supported by other voices.

"No," the Duca rumbled back. "But am I to be deprived of my retreat,
left here like a common dog amongst other dogs, while these accursed
fiends starve slowly to death? No! I tell you, you must fight for me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

But he had told them so several times before and nothing had happened.
Kirby grinned at the thought of the caste the Duca was losing by being
driven to this belittling parley.

"Holy One," exclaimed a new priest in answer to the urge to fight, "what
can we do against the golden haired fiend? The stairs are so narrow that
he could defend them alone. And then there are the gates of bronze. If
we could shatter the first, at the foot of the steps, we should only
encounter others. The Duca must remember that his tower was built to
withstand attack."

"Even so," the Duca snapped back, "it must be attacked! I--"

But then he fell silent, having been made so by the sounds of dissension
which arose amongst his caciques. Kirby, laughing to himself, turned
away from his listening post, and tip-toed up the steps.

After he had closed and bolted behind him three of the bronze portals so
feared by the caciques, he turned to the entrance of the chamber in
which he had left Naida and the others. Here all was silent, and he
found his friends grouped about a couch on which lay Elana. Feeling the
solemnity of the moment, he would have taken his place quietly amongst
the mourners.

Naida, however, came to him at once, and in a low voice asked for news
from the amphitheatre, and when Kirby answered that the caciques were
unanimously in favor of leaving them alone until they starved, she
exclaimed:

"Oh, then it is good news!"

After that, however, a shadow of doubt flickered in her great eyes.

"And yet, is it? It means temporary immunity, of coarse.
But--starvation!"

Kirby assured her with a grin.

"If we had to starve we might worry. But there is more food here than
the Duca thinks. Look!"

       *       *       *       *       *

From a bulging pocket of his tunic he fished a strip of the roots on
which he had subsisted so comfortably. Naida's eyes widened, and several
of the girls gave low cries.

"Yes," Naida exclaimed, "but such food! Why--why, do you know what you
are offering us? Why, this is the sacred Peyote! Only the Duca eats it,
and, at rare intervals, his priests."

Kirby was really startled now.

"But surely you and the others have taken quantities of the stuff away
from the Valley of the Geyser. Do you mean--"

"Because we gathered the Peyote does not mean that we have ever tasted
it. We gather it for the Duca. To taste would be complete, utter
sacrilege. Have _you_ been eating it?"

Inwardly Kirby was chuckling at this added proof of the buncumbe with
which the Duca--and other Ducas--had fooled all.

"Of course I've been eating the Peyote."

"And--and nothing has happened to you?" Naida asked.

"Hardly. I certainly haven't been blasted by the Lords of the Sun and
Moon, or the Serpent either!"

Naida and all the others were silent. The conflict between their
reverence for the food and their clear desire to eat it, now that it was
become the food of their leader, was pathetic.

Kirby put one of the strips in Naida's hand.

"Why not?" he asked. "We have bested the Duca in fair fight. We have
seized his tower. Why not eat his food?"

As he had hoped it would, the suggestion at last settled the matter. A
moment later, as Naida nibbled her first bite, she smiled.

"Why, it--it's good!"

With the question of provisions settled at least for a time, Kirby's
next thought was of the tower. The present lull of peace seemed made for
exploration.

"Come along," he said to Naida, "we've plenty to do," and then, when he
explained, they set out, accompanied by Nini, a cousin of Naida's, and
Ivana, a younger sister.

All of the others remained with little Elana.

       *       *       *       *       *

While they climbed spiral stairs, Naida explained that the chamber they
had just left was used by the Duca as a place in which he prayed before
and after contacts with caciques or subjects. A sort of halfway station
between earth and heaven, as it were, where the Duca might be purged of
any sullying influence gained from human relationships.

At thought of the rank, egotistical hypocrisy implied by the story,
Kirby smiled grimly. Then they came to a new door, heavier than that
which barricaded the prayer chamber. Unlocked, the thing swung
ponderously at Kirby's push, and with the three girls pressing close
beside him, he entered--and stopped.

"Naida!" he gasped.

"Oh, _oh_!" she cried, and while Nini and Ivana gasped, she clapped her
hands in an instinctive, feminine reaction of joy. "But there are things
here which I believe none but the Ducas of our race have ever seen! Oh!
Why, the sacred girdle is as nothing compared to this display!"

By "display" she meant a treasure which took Kirby's breath away, which
made his heart act queerly.

The walls of the chamber were fashioned of polished blocks of obsidion
on which stood out in heavy bas-relief a maze of decorative figures
fashioned of pure, beaten gold--the same kind of gold which had gone
into the making of the cylinder of gold. With his first glance at the
gorgeously wrought motifs of Feathered Serpent and Sun and Moon symbols,
Kirby knew to a certainty whence the golden cylinder had come
originally.

But even the gold--literally tons of it there must have been--was
nothing compared to the gems.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were spread out in blinding array upon a great table in the center
of the room. There were pearls as big as turkey eggs and whiter, softer
than the light of a June morning growing in the East. There were rubies.
One amongst the many was the size of a baseball and glowed like the
heart of a red star. The least of the two or three hundred gems would
have outclassed the greatest treasures of the Crown jewels of England
and Russia combined.

Most overwhelming of all, however, was the jewel which rested against a
square of black cloth all its own in the center of the table. While his
heart still acted queerly, while Naida, Nini, and Ivana hung back,
delighted, but still too bewildered to move, Kirby advanced and took
gingerly in his hands a single white diamond about eighteen inches long,
and almost as wide and deep as it was long.

The thing was carved with exquisite cunning to a likeness of the living
head of Quetzalcoatl, the Feathered Serpent.

Kirby dared not guess how many pounds the carven hunk of flashing,
blue-white carbon weighed. He knew only that like it there was no other
diamond in the world, and that the thing was real. Naida and the two
girls were silent now, and suddenly Kirby realized that to their awe of
the gem was added awe of deepest religious nature. Slowly he put the
diamond head of the Serpent back upon its square of cloth.

"We--we had heard that this thing existed," Naida said presently, voice
hushed, "but no one except the holy men of our race has ever beheld
it."

"But, what is it?" Kirby asked. "Whence came it?"

However, when Naida would have answered, he interrupted.

"But wait! Tell me as we go. We could stay here for the rest of our
lives without much trouble, but we've got to cover the rest of the tower
and get back to the others."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was after they had closed the door to the treasure room that Naida
told him the story.

"There is not so much to tell," she began. "The diamond itself is so
gorgeous that it is hard to talk about. But here is the story. A great
many ages ago one of the Ducas of our race found the diamond, decided to
carve it into a perfect likeness of the head of the Serpent God. All of
the craftsmen of the race helped him and when they were done, they took
their image to Quetzalcoatl himself, and showed him what they had done.

"Quetzalcoatl was pleased. So pleased, that he promised all of the wise
men that he would cease to prey upon them as he had in the past, and
henceforward would take his toll of sacrifice from the ape-men alone.
Them he hated and would continue to hate because they worshipped not him
but Xlotli.

"And so it came about," Naida went on slowly, looking up at Kirby as
they still mounted wide steps to the upper reaches of the tower, "that
our people gained immunity from a God which had always before harmed and
destroyed them. Our race presently began to build this castle here on
the high plateau, and Quetzalcoatl kept his compact with them. He still
comes out of his chasm at intervals and preys upon the ape-men, but no
one of our race has seen him for thousands of years, and he has always
let us alone. And there is the whole myth and explanation of why the
great diamond is revered among us as a holy of holies."

       *       *       *       *       *

They had mounted to a new door which Kirby guessed might give entrance
to the Duca's living quarters. But he was in no mood to open it at
once.

"Wait a minute," he said as they all paused. "You say that, although
none of your race has seen Quetzalcoatl since the diamond head was
carved, he still comes out of his chasm and makes trouble for the
ape-men. Just what does that mean?"

"Why--" Naida looked at him wonderingly. "I mean what I have said. The
Serpent comes out of his chasm and--"

"What chasm?" Kirby asked sharply.

"Why, the one we crossed this morning. It extends to the far reaches of
our country, beyond the Rorroh forest, where the ape-men dwell but which
our people never visit. It is in that distant part of the chasm that the
Serpent dwells."

"But--but--Oh, good Lord!" Kirby whistled softly. "Naida, do you mean to
tell me that Quetzalcoatl was not simply a mythical monster, but an
actual, living serpent which is alive _now_?"

Naida and the others shrugged.

"Why not?" she answered. "Sometimes we have captured a few ape-men, and
they tell us stories of how Quetzalcoatl kills them. _They_ say he is
very much alive."

"But," Kirby mumbled in increasing wonder, "is this living creature the
same which your ancestors worshipped first as long ago, perhaps, as a
million years?"

"That," Naida answered unhesitatingly, "I'm not sure of. Our caciques
believe that the Serpent, although it lives longer than any other
sentient thing, finally dies and is succeeded by a new Serpent which is
reproduced by itself, within its own body."

So overwhelming did Kirby find this unexpected sequel to their discovery
of the great diamond head, so staggered was he by the fact that
Quetzalcoatl, of Aztecan myth, might exist as a sentient creature here
in this cavern world, that he had little heart left for exploring other
wonders.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nevertheless, he presently pushed open the new door before which they
had paused, and behind it found, as he had expected, the Duca's living
quarters.

These were as severe as the jewel chamber had been gorgeous. A thin
pallet spread upon a frame of wood formed the bed, and beside it stood a
single stiff chair. That was all. The walls of glistening obsidion were
bare.

There was, however, a door in one circular wall, and as Kirby flung this
open, his previous disappointment changed to delight. For shelves along
the walls of the small chamber held roll after roll of parchment covered
with script. And in one corner lay six undamaged, almost new Mannlichers
and several hundred rounds of ammunition!

"Naida," he exclaimed, "do you know what those are?"

"I suppose that they are weapons of the sort you used against the
ape-men this morning?"

Kirby grinned.

"They are the same kind I used, and then some. With these weapons we can
do what we never could with the smaller one. How did they get here?"

"They came when I was much younger," Naida answered with a shade of
sadness in her voice. "The men who had them penetrated the Valley of the
Geyser, coming by a different route from the one you followed. When the
Duca learned they were there, he sent such men of the race as were still
able to fight to kill them. That order of the Duca's was one of the
first things to turn me against him. The men were not harming us, and
they should have been permitted to go away. But the Duca insisted that
they be killed, and in the fight were lost eight of our youngest and
strongest men."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby stooped to inspect the rifles.

"Has no one learned to use these weapons?"

"No," Naida answered. "The Duca kept them for himself."

"We think," put in Ivana, "that he hoped to learn to use them, and was
afraid for us to have the knowledge."

Kirby filled one of the magazines, and felt the heft of the gun with
pleasure.

"Very well," he said. "It looks to me as though your time to learn the
art of shooting has come at last. Come, I think we had better be getting
back downstairs."

Kirby took three guns himself, and with the others lugging the rest,
they started back. The parchment rolls, he decided, must be left for
examination later on.

They were all elated when they rejoined the girls in the prayer chamber,
and high spirits were still further increased by the report, promptly
given, that all had remained quiet in the amphitheatre. Save only for
the presence of Elana, radiant and calm in death, the give and take of
questions would have been accompanied by actual gaiety.

But the time of peace did not last much longer. While Naida was in the
midst of answering incessant questions about the wonders of the jewel
chamber, Kirby heard a sound from below, and suddenly went over to the
downward-winding steps.

"Listen," he called sharply back to the others.

He had not been mistaken. Many footsteps echoed from the amphitheatre,
and he made out that the caciques were coming toward the bolted gate at
the foot of the steps. While he listened, and Naida came eagerly to his
side, silence fell.

But then clear words came up to them.

"Let the upper-world man come to the foot of the steps," called the
Duca. "I have an offer to make him!"


CHAPTER VII

To himself Kirby chuckled. Such real entreaty filled the Duca's voice
that there seemed no danger of further treachery from him at the
moment.

With a grin, Kirby took Naida's hand and led her down the steps,
unbolting each bronze gate but the last.

"What do you want?" he asked in a cool voice a moment later, when he
stopped on the final step and faced the Duca from behind the protection
of the final gate.

Clearly the parley was going to be a blunt one.

"I want you to leave our world," the Duca rumbled promptly.

He was drawn up in a posture intended to display dignity. But his left
cheek, where Kirby had hammered him, was pulpy and discolored, and
somehow he seemed to Kirby more than ever merely human.

"Under what conditions am I to leave?"

"If you will vacate my tower at once," the Duca said with a flush of
eagerness which he could not conceal, "I will permit Naida and one of my
caciques to escort you back to the Valley of the Geyser. I will also
give you directions by which you may travel in safety from there to the
outer world."

Kirby, wanting more details, made himself seem thoughtful.

"And what will happen to me, and to the girls, if I decline?"

Encouraged, the Duca made an impressive gesture.

"You will be left in the tower to die of starvation. Mine is not a
complicated offer. It should require no complicated decision. What is
your answer?"

Kirby dropped his carefully assumed mask of thought.

"My answer is this," he lashed out. "I will not leave! The tower is
ours, and we will hold it until you have accepted Naida's peace terms on
your priestly oath!"

"But if you stay in the tower you will starve!" thundered the Duca.

"No, we won't starve! We won't starve because we eat the food of
Ducas!"

       *       *       *       *       *

In silence, Kirby took from his pocket a strip of the sacred Peyote and
bit off one end of it. Suddenly the hush in the amphitheatre became
complete. As he watched Kirby chewing, the Duca gasped and choked.

"Moreover," Kirby announced with slow emphasis, "I have taken possession
of the weapons which you took from men of the upper world, and which
have already sent men of your race to their death. I have no wish to
kill either you or your caciques, but if you do not presently discuss
peace with me, you will certainly find yourself embroiled in a struggle
more bitter than the mild one of this morning."

With that said, he swung on his heel, and taking Naida's hand again,
started with her up the steps.

"I have nothing more to say," he called over his shoulder to a Duca
whose white haired majesty had been stripped from him.

"We're getting on," he whispered to Naida a moment later. "The best
thing for us is just to sit still now, and wait."

With the questions he wanted to ask Naida about her world becoming
insistent, he found himself, as a matter of fact, glad for the prospect
of further respite. As both of them rejoined the girls in the Duca's
prayer chamber, the first thing he did was to take from his tunic the
cylinder of gold which he had found in the canyon.

"What is this, Naida?" he asked, hoping to start talk that would make
all of them forget the Duca and politics, and at the same time help him
to learn much that he wished to know.

But a queer thing happened. Naida's reaction to the carven gold was as
unexpected as it was marked.

"_Oh!_" she cried in a voice which suddenly trembled with surprise, with
blank dismay. Somehow, the cylinder of gold brought to her face things
which not even the Serpent's head of the diamond had evoked.

       *       *       *       *       *

The prospect of a long session of talk began to fade out in Kirby's
mind.

"But Naida, whatever is there about this fragment of gold to startle you
as it does?"

By this time all of the thirty-odd other girls had come flocking about
them, and all were staring at the cylinder as fascinatedly as Naida.

"Do you see what he has there?" Naida finally asked, ignoring Kirby in
her continued excitement.

"Do we _see_?" answered the girl she had addressed. "Naida, surely it is
the carving which was lost!"

Naida was quivering with feeling now.

"Do you realize what it means to our cause that it should have been
returned to us in this way?"

The girl to whom she had spoken, and the others, simply looked at her,
but in one face after another presently dawned awe and joy.

Kirby stood still, puzzled and interested, until at last Naida was
recovered enough to speak to him.

"Where did you get this thing which you call 'a fragment of gold'?" she
asked in a hushed voice.

"I found it," Kirby answered, "lying beside the skeleton of an
upper-world man, while I was ascending the canyon which brought me to
the Valley of the Geyser."

"And you do not know what the cylinder is? But no, of course you could
not."

"_What_ is it, Naida?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Naida glanced at her friends, then laid her hand on Kirby's.

"Next to the great diamond, it is the most cherished possession of our
race. In some respects it is even more holy than the Serpent's head. The
cylinder happens to be the first work in gold which was ever produced by
our people. It was made when the race was new. It was because our first
wise men had found they could create things of beauty like this
cylinder, that they decided to attempt the creation of the Serpent's
head, which is supposed to have brought all of our blessings upon us."

Kirby thought he was beginning to understand the excitement which his
introduction of the cylinder had created. He also thought he could see
what Naida had meant by implying that the cylinder could be made to aid
their cause.

"Tell me," he asked in a mood approaching reverence, "how the cylinder
came to be lying beside a dead man's bones."

"It was stolen," Naida answered in the breathless silence which the
others were keeping. "When I was very young, an upper-world man found
his way here, and the Duca captured and meant to sacrifice him. But
while they were leading him to the temple where such special ceremonies
are held--the building stands on another plateau, beyond this--the man
broke away. Some of the priests in the procession were carrying the
cylinder, for it was an occasion of great importance. The prisoner
knocked them down, got the cylinder away from them, and finally escaped
by the same route over which you came."

"And he escaped," said Kirby wonderingly, "only to be killed by a
rattlesnake before he ever reached the civilized world. But do you mean
that you never knew your sacred cylinder was so close to you all these
years?"

Naida shook her head.

"We never got to the canyon of which you speak, for a special reason
which I shall explain some day. And besides that, I think the Duca was
afraid of this man who fought so bravely. So he counted the cylinder as
lost. And that is one of the reasons why he killed the men with the
rifles, who appeared in the Valley a few years later."

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby looked at her thoughtfully. The mood for discussing all the
wonders of this lower world, which had made him bring out the cylinder
originally, had quite vanished.

"I suppose," he said, "that anyone who was responsible for the return of
the cylinder to its rightful owners, would be held in some respect?"

Naida nodded vigorously, while little lightnings of excitement flickered
in her eyes.

"He might be held in more than respect."

"What, then, do you suggest that we do next?"

Again the small lightnings darted, and Naida reached for the cylinder.

"Do you mind if I take it for a moment?"

"Of course not."

Promptly then she faced around.

"Wait here, everyone," she ordered.

And with that she waved the cylinder in a flashing little arc before
their eyes, and darted to the door.

It was all so unexpected that she was gone before Kirby could speak.
Slowly, with all of the suddenly gay company of girls following after
him, he went to the doorway, and stood on the steps leading to the
amphitheatre.

       *       *       *       *       *

A minute passed. He heard voices downstairs. He heard Naida's voice
ringing clearly, though he could not distinguish her words. He heard a
great cry from a score of male throats. More minutes passed. Words that
were low and tense poured out in a rumbling volume. Above the rumble,
Naida's voice presently sounded again, clear and sweet, but incisive.
Then, when no more than five or six minutes had gone, Kirby heard the
clang of the bronze gate at the foot of the steps, heard light, swift
footsteps ascending.

"Naida!" he called softly.

She flashed upward toward him around the last curve in the stairway.
Straight to his outstretched arms she went.

"It is done! It is done!" she whispered.

"Tell us!" cried first one girl and then others.

Naida drew away from Kirby at last.

"I told the Duca," she said to all of them, "that our leader would keep
the cylinder for a period of time equal to one upper-world year. If the
Duca grants all the terms of peace which we will ask of him, and if he
accepts the upper-world man as our temporal ruler, and all goes well for
a year, then we will consider replacing the cylinder where it belongs."

"And what," Kirby asked exultantly, "does the Duca say?"

Suddenly, without warning, Naida dropped before him on one knee, and
from that position gazed up at him laughing.

"He says he will make you our King, to govern all temporal affairs
within our realm! He is waiting for you to come and hold a conclave
now."

"_What?_"

Still kneeling half in fun, half in sincere reverence, Naida held out
the precious, potent cylinder of gold.

"Guard it carefully!" she exclaimed. "So long as you keep it away from
the Duca, making him hope to win it back, he will consent to almost
anything. Yes, he is waiting with the caciques in the amphitheatre now;
waiting to draw up terms of peace."


CHAPTER VIII

To be King amongst these people! A queer sensation tugged at Kirby's
heart as he descended the steps with Naida at his right, and all of
her--and his--dainty and gracious friends following after. Yet, intense
as his emotion was, never for a second was he able to doubt the evidence
of his senses which told him that all of this was real. As they
descended the black steps of the tower, Naida's sweetness, her grace,
the warm humanity of her, made him humble with gratitude for the
extraordinary fortune which had come to him, an unromantic aviator born
in Kansas.

Then they were standing in the brilliant light of the amphitheatre, and
the Duca, surrounded by his caciques, was advancing to meet them.

It was not a long conference which followed. Kirby saw from the start
that the Duca was indeed ready to come to terms. So treasured an object,
it seemed, was the cylinder of gold, that the mere fact that Kirby
possessed it made the Duca respect the possessor, whether he would or
no. With this initial advantage, it did not take long to make demands
and win acceptance.

It was agreed that some systematic campaign of extermination should be
planned and carried out against the ape-men. Further, the project for
eventually bringing other upper-world men to the realm was accepted.
Most notable of all, it was agreed that while the Duca should retain a
voice in the regulation of temporal affairs, Kirby should possess an
absolute veto over his word.

Naida said there must be some formal ceremony to celebrate Kirby's
ascendency to power. To this the Duca consented, and established the
date as a fortnight hence, and the place as the temple on the plateau
beyond the plateau of the castle, where the Ducas had been invested with
their robes of state from time immemorial. At the end, it was decided
that little Elana should be left in the prayer chamber until a burial
ceremony could be held on the morrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

In less than an hour, Kirby, Naida, and the others withdrew from the
amphitheatre to return to the regular dwelling places of the girls. Deep
in his mind, Kirby did not know how sincere the Duca was, and fear
lingered, somehow, but he put it aside for the present.

As they came out of the castle, proceeding in a gay procession across
the drawbridge above the moat of beautiful aquatic plants, Kirby saw
that the light from the glass sky was fading to a glow like that of
spring twilight in the upper world. Naida answered his question about
the phenomenon by saying that day and night in the cavern corresponded
to the same period above. What quality of the glass sky gave out light,
she did not know, but it seemed definite that the element was sensitive
to the presence of light in the upper world, and when the sun sank
there, the glow faded here.

A flower embroidered path led them around the castle to a group of
little crystalline houses all overgrown with bougainvillea vines and
honeysuckle. In front of the first, Naida paused, and while the others
went on to the other houses, she looked at Kirby.

"It is Elana's dwelling," she said simply, "and it will be vacant now.
Elana would want you to take it. Will you, please?"

The twilight was deepening swiftly. Kirby nodded reverently, then drew
close to Naida.

"Naida?"

"Yes?"

He took her hand.

"I can stay here, I can consent to become, after a fashion, a King, only
if you will reign with me as Queen. Will you, Naida? Will you love me as
I have learned to love you during this single day in Paradise?"

She did not answer. But presently Kirby's mind went blank for sheer joy.
For then Naida raised her face, and he kissed her lips.

It made no difference then that, despite the day's victory, Kirby could
see trouble ahead, and feared, rather than rejoiced at, the Duca's too
easy acceptance of terms. The future could take care of itself. This
moment in the dusk belonged to him and Naida.

       *       *       *       *       *

The two weeks which passed for Kirby after that particular twilight sped
quickly. During the first morning, all attended the ceremony which was
held for Elana's burial in the plot of gardened ground where lay her
ancestors. Ensuing mornings were devoted to conferences in the
amphitheatre with Duca and caciques.

After the fourth day Kirby, at Naida's insistence, moved into splendid
quarters in the castle--a suite of chambers across the amphitheatre from
those in which the caciques dwelt. In practically forcing the move on
Kirby, Naida won his consent finally by agreeing to have their wedding
ceremony performed on the day of his coronation; then she would come to
the castle with him.

The afternoons of that first fortnight before the wedding and coronation
were spent in hunting and fishing. Also Kirby and Naida visited often
the aged people of the race, who dwelt in crystalline, vine covered
houses like those of the girls, but removed from them. Naida's relatives
were dead, but she had relatives there, and to all these aged ones, who
sat living in the past, she did what she could to explain present
developments in the affairs of the younger generation.

Last but not least, Kirby set aside certain hours each afternoon which
he devoted to the formation of a rifle squad amongst the girls. Six
rifles he had, and in turn he trained each of the girls in their use,
having set up a range at the foot of the plateau cliffs. The results he
gained made him feel that the day would come soon enough when he would
dare launch an offensive against the ape-people; and especially pleasing
was the sense of power over the Duca which he gained. The Duca showed no
sign of treachery. Yet Kirby did not trust him. Never did he quite
forget the misgivings which had lingered in his mind after the first
conclave.

       *       *       *       *       *

As for his relationship with Naida, that grew with every moment they
could steal to spend with each other. And side by side with their
growing knowledge of each other grew, for Kirby, an increasing store of
knowledge of the realm.

He learned, amongst other things, what seemed the origin of the worship
of the Serpent, Quetzalcoatl, amongst primitive Mexican races. The time
had been when the People of the Temple had mingled freely with the races
above them; and, that they might have ready means of egress to the
world, they had built the tunnel through which Kirby had entered the
Valley of the Geyser. Thus, going and coming as they did, they had
spread their cult of the worship of Quetzalcoatl; and when, eventually,
strife arose between the peoples of upper world and lower, and the
People of the Temple withdrew to their realm, they left behind them the
Serpent myth which was to live through countless centuries.

The tunnel, Naida said, had been abandoned when her people left the
upper world once and for all, and its use for any reason prohibited.
This, Naida gave as the reason why none of them went near the tunnel
now, and why the cylinder of gold had lain in the canyon undiscovered.
It was the explanation she had promised on the day in the tower, when
first she saw the cylinder.

So the days passed, until the day set aside for wedding and coronation
dawned. On that morning, Kirby, having concluded a long conference with
the Duca, was walking with Naida in the gardens outside the castle.

"Tell me," he said to her: "do you yourself believe that this Serpent
has the powers of a God?"

Naida looked at him quickly, a sudden fright in her eyes.

"I believe the Serpent exists to-day, somewhere in the distant reaches
of the chasm, beyond the Rorroh forest."

"Yes, but do you believe the Serpent is God?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Actually frightened now, she looked swiftly about. But when she saw that
they were alone, confidence returned.

"No!" she exclaimed. "I do not believe Quetzalcoatl is a god. I believe
he is the most terrible creature anywhere in our realm, and that men
first worshipped him through fear. I believe our race would be better a
hundred times if they had never made him their God."

Kirby whistled.

"Then you do _not_ believe that the Ducas of past ages talked with him.
You do not believe it was Quetzalcoatl's pleasure over the great diamond
which made him cease preying on your people?"

"No! Long habit makes me show respect for these myths, and adhere to the
customs of our cult, but I do not believe. I think our race gained
immunity for the Serpent's ravages, not through a compact with
Quetzalcoatl, but because our builders were intelligent enough to erect
the castle up here on the plateau, where Quetzalcoatl could not reach
them. To tell the truth, I think the whole cult is false and wrong, and
I wish Quetzalcoatl were dead and gone from the world!"

Kirby smiled. In spite of Naida's reverence for certain features of the
cult, he had long suspected that her true feelings were those she had
just expressed. And he was glad for this new bond of understanding
between them. He glanced at her with understanding and perfect trust.

"Naida, since we have talked so frankly, there is one more thing which I
must bring out."

She looked up at him.

"What is it?"

"The Duca."

       *       *       *       *       *

She drew closer, her perfumed body brushing his, her great eyes
caressing him.

"Naida, I am afraid of the man."

"And so am I!" she confessed suddenly.

"It has all been too easy," Kirby said in a slow voice. "There is no
doubt whatever that our possession of the cylinder of gold has had great
influence on the Duca, and yet--"

He paused, taking her hand.

"And yet," she went on for him, "you do not believe he would have
conceded what he has, unless he intends to make trouble?"

Kirby nodded twice, emphatically.

"Well, you have trained all of us to use the rifles."

He smiled gravely at her understanding.

"Yes, I have. And your skill, and that of the others, with the rifles,
will always help us. Yet even so--"

Closer still she drew now, and there was sadness in her eyes.

"I think I see," she said in a voice which choked. "When do you think he
will make a move to start trouble?"

Kirby hesitated, then drew a long breath.

"To-day!"

"On--on the day of our union?" Naida echoed in dismay. "Can you tell
where or how he will strike at us?"

Kirby shook his head.

"There are a hundred things he could do. Naida, I--I--Well, somehow I am
afraid of the ceremony this afternoon--the wedding ceremony!"

       *       *       *       *       *

He felt a little shiver go through her, and would have taken her in his
arms, save that a gay cry rang in the garden then.

"Naida, Naida!" It was her cousin, Nini, a bronze-haired youngster as
elfin and Pucklike as her name. "I thought we should never find you! Do
you realize this is your _wedding_ day, and that you're acting as if
there was nothing to be done?"

Nini darted a mocking glance at Kirby, who grinned.

"Do come, Naida!" cried another girl. "Your gown is ready, and we want
you to ourselves for awhile."

Other girls joined them, some singing and some carrying an obligato on
the sweet, flutelike instruments which Kirby had first heard as he hung
in the throat of the geyser. In front of them all, Kirby laughed and
kissed Naida on the forehead. But as he took leave of her thus, he
whispered:

"We must not let our guard relax for a second this afternoon. And I
think there is a more definite precaution which I will take, besides."


CHAPTER IX

Some hours later, Kirby smiled with tight-lipped satisfaction at thought
of that precaution which he had taken. What it was only he, Nini, Ivana,
and three other girls knew, which secrecy pleased him as much as the
precautionary measure itself.

Seated alone in a dimly-lighted, thick-walled cell of the ancient temple
in which the dual ceremony of wedding and coronation would take place,
he was waiting for the moment when the festivities would begin. Thus far
the Duca had done nothing. Yet Kirby's uneasiness would not leave him,
and he continued to be thankful that, if trouble should start, the Duca
might not find as many trumps in his hand as he expected.

A couple of hours after Kirby had left Naida and the other girls in the
garden, all had begun the two-mile journey from the castle to the small
plateau on which stood this temple, where the ceremony would be held.
Now, while Kirby waited alone, the Duca and his caciques had gone to
another wing of the temple. Naida, attended by her bridesmaids, had been
assigned to a cell of their own, and the rest of the girls were waiting
in the nave of the temple. Unable to attend the walk from their plateau
to this, the old people of the race had remained in their crystal
houses.

With ten minutes more to wait, Kirby rose from a bench on which he had
been seated, and began to pace his cell. It was this archaic pile of
stone, he finally decided, which was causing his depression. Unlike the
bright and cheerful castle, this place, older than any other building in
the realm, was squat, thick-walled, and gloomy. Here, in the dusky cells
which lined labyrinthine corridors, the early generations of the race
had found protection from outside dangers. All of which was all right,
Kirby thought, but just the same he wished he had insisted upon being
wedded in the brilliant and cheerful amphitheatre.

       *       *       *       *       *

But presently he stopped pacing and faced the door of his cell. Then he
breathed a sigh of relief.

From down the twisting corridors which wound out to the central nave,
stole the high sweetness of soprano voices, the whisper of flutes, and
the mellow resonance of little gongs of jade and gold. It was the signal
for which he had waited.

It had been the Duca's instructions that he should come out into the
temple when the music began, and meet Naida there. Both would advance to
the altar, and when they were in place, the Duca would come to them.
Kirby, therefore, after a glance at the blue trousers and tunic of
tanager scarlet which the girls had made for him, opened the door of his
cell, and stepped out.

In a moment he traversed the windings of the corridor, and halted under
a flat arch at one side of the temple nave.

As he paused so, to await the appearance of Naida and her bridesmaids
under a similar arch directly across the temple, he held his breath. Not
even nymphs could be as graceful as were the twenty-six girls who were
performing the dance of Life Immortal, which tradition decreed should be
given before the ceremony by which, in this realm, two souls were
wedded. The flash of rainbow gowns was like the swirling of light in a
sky at dawning. The music of voices, flutes, and the little gongs of
jade, would have stirred the souls of the dead.

If only the confounded sense of approaching disaster would leave him,
Kirby thought grimly, this would be a magnificent moment. As it was, he
turned his eyes away from the girls, and began to examine the temple.

Just as Naida had told him the case would be, he found both sides of the
nave surrounded by arches similar to the one under which he was
standing. Everywhere, dim and tortuous corridors led to cells like the
one he had just left. Then, in one end of the nave, loomed a closed door
from behind which the Duca and caciques would appear when the couple to
be wedded were in place, before the altar.

The altar itself, a rectangular mass of some jadelike stone, stood at a
distance of perhaps twenty paces in front of the closed door. On top of
the greenish stones, resting on a cushion of some crimson material,
flashed the crown which would be used at the coronation. Kirby's eyes
widened as he beheld a single rose-cut diamond two inches in diameter,
mounted in an exquisitely simple bandeau of wrought gold. But, a moment
later, even the crown which would be his--if nothing happened--seemed
only a bauble compared to the other prize which he had won in this world
beneath the world.

Naida!

       *       *       *       *       *

He realized that the dance was ended, the music stilled, and that the
rainbow garbed girls had formed a double line in the center of the
temple. Suddenly his heart beat fast, and for just a moment, as he dared
look full and deeply at Naida, and she smiled back at him across the
distance, he even forgot to be depressed.

But even as he advanced to meet her, his uneasiness returned.

Now the girls were singing again, their voices raised in a triumphant
chorale as beautiful as Naida's face with its warm red lips and smiling
eyes, as beautiful as her wedding gown that might have been woven, in
its filminess, of mist from the sea. The bridesmaids, silent, their
lovely faces alight, paused. But Naida came on.

From her floated to Kirby a fragrance more overwhelming than even the
perfume of the geyser. Presently he felt her hand on his arm, and at
last they stood side by side. Now again, his premonition of evil left
him for a flash; but again it returned.

"I love you," he whispered.

"I love _you_."

"But I am still afraid."

Naida's smile faded.

"And I too. Oh, I've been terribly afraid! We will keep our guard!"

"Yes."

       *       *       *       *       *

In front of them, on the altar, the crown diamond winked and shimmered
in a dim light. The swelling chorus of triumph, in which the bridesmaids
had joined now, made the whole temple ring. Slowly, while Naida moved
easily beside him, Kirby began to march to the altar.

Then it was done, and they were halted. After both of them had given a
lingering glance at the crown whose diamond shimmered now within their
reach, they raised their eyes to the closed door behind the altar.

The thing was swinging open. An inch it moved, two inches.

Kirby waited, never taking his eyes away from the widening crack. With a
crashing final volume of sound, the chorus swept magnificently to its
climax. Then the door was flung wide.

Still Kirby stood stiffly before the altar, with Naida drawn up
splendidly beside him. After two seconds, however, he moved.

Duca and caciques were not standing in the corridor.

In the semi-darkness, the only figures visible there were squatting,
grotesque things whose bodies were covered with whitish hair and whose
leathery faces were disfigured by gashes of mouths filled with enormous
teeth.

A feeling of standing face to face with final disaster, turned Kirby
sick. As he jerked back from the altar, sweeping a paralyzed Naida with
him, the ape-men let out gibbering howls, half-human. With gigantic,
hopping strides, the foremost rank of the creatures swung forward,
straight into the temple.


CHAPTER X

Kirby, already falling back toward the other girls, caught Naida up in
his arms, and ran.

"Nini!" he bellowed. "Ivana! Get the rifles!"

While the two whom he had ordered sprang to a corridor, and four others
followed, Kirby fell in with the others and dropped Naida on her feet.
Sick as he was, there was still a ray of hope, because the hard-headed
precaution he had taken against treachery this morning was to have Nini
and Ivana bring the rifles here and hide them.

The first of the ape-men, snarling, laughing, had hopped beyond the
altar, and the yellow foam of madness was slavering from his jaws. Over
his shoulder he howled some jargon which made his hairy legion struggle
to catch up with him.

"Have you got any puff balls?" Kirby snapped at Naida.

She shook her head numbly, just as Nini and Ivana swung forward with the
Mannlichers.

"No. But you had sense enough to bring the rifles! Oh, what does it
mean?"

"The Duca has sold himself out to the ape-man! He was helpless against
us, and has brought them to destroy us for him. Here, Ivana, give me a
rifle! Everyone for herself!"

The next moment he had a Mannlicher at his shoulder.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the thing kicked, an ape who would have reached him in two more jumps
crashed over with his heart torn out, the temple echoed with sound which
threatened to rip its solid walls apart, and bright flashes at Kirby's
right and left told him that other rifles were getting under way.

He fired again, twice more, slaughtering an ape with each shot. The five
other rifles were creating havoc.

Blocked by a dozen torn and bleeding bodies on the floor, the
reenforcements which still poured from the corridor, began to mill
around amongst themselves, and the forward charge slowed down. All the
panic which had sent the ape-men scuttling from the beach at their first
experience of gunfire, seemed ready to break loose again now.

Kirby felt it was good enough for the work of a minute.

"Get into line as I showed you how!" he shouted. "Rifles in the front
rank, the others behind them. We're all right now! Keep firing!"

"Keep behind me!" he ordered Naida, still unarmed.

Then he placed a shell in the chest of one brute who was broader and
heavier than the others--a leader--and saw that he had increased the
demoralization; and from the hastily-formed front rank a volley leaped
hot and jagged.

Then the rout which had threatened broke loose. As eight ape-men slumped
into blubbering, bleeding heaps, the milling remainder of the horde
turned, and in a fighting, scrambling frenzy attempted to get back to
the corridor.

Kirby let his triumph take the form of thoughts about what he would do
to the Duca when that personage could be rounded up.

"Follow after them!" he ordered. "Don't stop until we have located the
Duca. He is the one we must settle--"

       *       *       *       *       *

But he never finished.

As he himself, holding fire for a second, prepared to follow up the
retreat, he found himself confronted by the utterly unexpected.

A voice unquestionably the Duca's began to shout orders at the ape-men
from somewhere down the corridor! And, riot or no riot, the tones of
that voice seemed to inspire the creatures with more fear than the rifle
fire.

So suddenly the change came, that by the time Kirby flung his rifle
again to his shoulder, the crazy retreat had been halted, and as he
fired again, the ape-men swung in their tracks and began to charge!

There was no time to guess by what power the Duca had turned the tables.
There was not even time for orders. Kirby fired twice, knowing that the
ape-men had been infused with some spirit which would bring them on in
spite of rifle fire.

Naida, unarmed, cried out behind him, and he shoved his gun at her.

"Take it!"

He had just inserted a new clip. He handed her others.

"Fire for your lives!" he shouted to the girls.

"But you!" Naida gasped. "You are unarmed!"

"I'll be all right."

On the floor lay a jagged, hand-chipped knife of obsidion which had
fallen as some ape died. Kirby grabbed it.

       *       *       *       *       *

In another second the flood of ape-men had burst in all its fury over
him. Crashing, thundering shots were dinning in his ears, animal death
screams and the Valkyrie battle cries of the girls filled the temple. He
could not tell how many of the apes were fighting him. As a cave-man's
club whizzed past his head, he drove his knife once, and yanked it
dripping from hairy, yielding flesh to plunge it again. A sudden
side-step carried him away from another assailant. He dropped the knife
to snatch the gigantic club of one of the creatures he had killed.

Quicker in every movement than the ape-men, he laid on, right and left,
with such power that blood spurted in a dozen places, and heads were
split open on every side. And because of his speed, the frantic, clumsy
blows and knife thrusts which were directed at him proved harmless.

A terrific drive which smashed a snarling face into pulp, left Kirby
free for a second, and he emerged from the first round of battle ready
to cut in and help the girls. But then he saw that he had gotten
separated from the main body.

"Naida!" he called. "Naida!"

A series of shots answered him, and as several apes fell, a gap was
opened through which he saw her conducting a well ordered retreat of all
the girls toward the dark corridors surrounding the temple. Again Kirby
fell to with his club, swinging, hacking, fighting with his whole
strength to catch up. He made headway, and hope began to come again. The
ape-men would not kill, or even harm, the girls. What they wanted was to
carry them off. If he and Naida together could get their party rounded
up in the corridors, the chances were good.

"Naida!" he shouted again. "Coming!"

Battering down an ape in front of him, he jumped up on the corpse, and
saw that already the vanguard of girls had reached the first sheltering
corridor. Naida had been cut off from the others by eight or ten apes.
But even so her fire made her mistress of the situation, and she seemed
all right.

It was just as Kirby started to jump down from the corpse that he saw
something which put another complexion on the matter, and left him
frozen where he was.

       *       *       *       *       *

Behind Naida, directly in the path in which her slavering aggressors
were slowly forcing her, a huge stone slab in the temple floor had begun
to tilt up as if it were a trapdoor raised by an invisible hand. Within
the yawning opening, Kirby caught a glimpse of stone steps winding down
into blackness.

In a flash he saw that it was Naida, and her alone, that the ape-men
were after. The Duca's determination was to capture her, and it was the
presence of this trapdoor, making capture possible, which had brought on
the second charge of the apes.

A scream, high and wild, from Naida released Kirby from his trance of
horror. He leaped off the corpse, and smashed a suddenly presented skull
like an egg shell. Momentarily he saw Naida, too terrified to fire,
staring at the open trapdoor. Kirby felled two apes and felt their blood
on his arms.

"Ivana!" he yelled. "Help Naida, for God's sake!"

An answering shout, not from Ivana alone but from many girls, encouraged
him, and he swung his club with a speed and force which would let
nothing stand before him. But then another scream from Naida rang in his
ears.

"Naida!" he shouted. "It's all right! We're coming!"

He knew, though, that it _wasn't_ all right. Fighting like a maniac, he
opened another lane down which he glimpsed her. Fighting still, in a
last terrific effort to force his way down the lane to her side, he saw
the black opening gape at her feet; and, as Naida screamed again, a
dozen hairy arms reached it at once, twisted the empty rifle out of her
hands, and lifted her shining body as if it had been a feather.

Shouts and murderous fire were coming from the other girls, and Kirby
swung his club as never before. But even as he fell upon the last two or
three apes which kept him away from Naida, those who had snatched her,
bolted down the steps.

Kirby was left with the memory of Naida's great eyes fixed upon his,
fear-filled, beseeching his protection. In a second, the ponderous
trapdoor crashed into place, and she was gone.


CHAPTER XI

Dazed and grief-stricken, Kirby stood in the bloody, corpse-filled nave
of the temple, surrounded by thirty-two girls whose faces were blanched
and most of whose eyes were tear-bright. The fight was over, and they
were assembled to decide what must be done, but for a time no one
spoke.

Gaining the trapdoor just as it was pinioned from beneath, Kirby had
torn at it with bare hands. But that had been hopeless. Then he had
begun to fight again. But that had been hopeless also. With howls and
screams they started to retreat, and it had not taken Kirby long to find
out that every part of their raid had been carefully planned, even to
this retreat under fire. Straight into the damp black tunnel which led
away from the corridor behind the altar, the ape-men had leaped. And
Kirby, in hot pursuit, had heard the Duca's voice driving them on. Too
much the soldier to follow in that darkness where the Duca knew every
foot of the way, and he knew nothing, Kirby had seen that he must go
back to the girls and take stock.

Now he looked at the strewn ape corpses, smelled the corrosive reek of
burned powder, and tried to put aside his grief.

"The Duca," he said at last, "must have been planning this with the apes
ever since the first morning in the castle."

Ivana, Naida's sister, nodded.

"The Duca brought the ape-people here, kept them in the tunnel, and then
herded them back when their work was done. I suppose it was one of the
caciques who opened the door when the time was right."

"Does anyone think we ought to try the tunnels now?" Kirby asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

Several girls shook their heads. He knew that already they felt he had
been wise in giving up the pursuit. Ivana spoke.

"If the Duca and his horde stay underground, we shouldn't have a chance
against them. And if they don't, we're better here."

Kirby shot a searching glance at her, somehow sure that her thoughts
were running parallel with his.

"You don't think they're going to stay here, do you?"

"No, and you don't either," Ivana answered.

"It seems to me that they will retreat into the Rorroh as fast as they
can," Kirby then observed.

"And do you think the Duca and all the caciques will go with the apes?"
This time it was Nini who spoke, and with the council so well launched,
Kirby began to feel better.

"I think," he answered Nini, "that the Duca has gone over to Xlotli
altogether. We fooled him to-day. Instead of killing or capturing us
all, he--he only got Naida. But he won't give up. I think he is taking
the apes off to some place from which he can launch a new attack. And
we've got to stop him before he is ready to deliver another blow."

"What do you mean?" Ivana now asked.

"Do you know where the villages of the ape-people are?"

"Yes. None of us has been very far into the Rorroh, but I could guess
where some of the villages may stand."

       *       *       *       *       *

Silence fell after that, but Kirby knew from the glint in Ivana's eyes,
and the quick breaths which other girls drew, that they understood.

"Ivana," he said suddenly, "will you go with me into the Rorroh jungle,
and stay with me, facing down every danger it may conceal, until we have
found Naida and brought her back?"

A flush of life crept into Ivana's pallid cheeks.

"Yes!"

Kirby faced the other girls, all of them keyed up now.

"Nini, will you go?"

Nini, bronze-haired, dainty nymph of a girl, who had yet the stamina of
a man, looked at him with brave eyes. Then her hands tightened on her
rifle, and she stepped forward.

"When will you have us start?" Ivana asked in a low voice.

"Now!" Kirby answered, and, taking up the rifle which lay beside
him--the same with which Naida had fought--he looked at the other
girls.

"There is not one of you," he said slowly, "who would not go willingly
on this quest. But the pursuit party must be small and mobile. And
there is another duty. To all of you I leave the care of the castle and
the plateau. Take the three rifles I shall leave behind, do what you can
to reassure the old people, and hold the plateau safe until we return."

A murmur of girls' voices sounded in the temple. Kirby motioned to Nini
and Ivana, and followed by a low cheer, they moved off together.

       *       *       *       *       *

The night was on them, where they crouched in a cave above a swiftly
flowing river. Kirby, rifle across his knees, sat peering out across the
black, invisible stretches of the forest. His nostrils quivered to this
mingled smells of fresh growth and fetid decay of the grotesque land. In
his ears shrilled the creaking and scraping of insects, the flap of
unseen wings, the distant bellowing grunt of some unseen, unknown
animal.

"I cannot sleep," Ivana said presently, from back in the cave.

"Hush," he whispered, "you will wake Nini."

"But I am already awake!" came her answer. "I--I cannot forget the white
snakes which slid from that tree when you tried to cut firewood."

"Hush," Kirby murmured again. "Presently the moon will rise on the earth
above, and light will come here. Even if the jungle is terrible, were
you not born with courage? Go to sleep now, both of you, because you
must relieve me soon."

As silence fell again, he knew that the real thing behind their
nervousness was their ghastly doubt about what the night was bringing to
Naida. But none of them spoke of Naida. So sickening were the
possibilities that Kirby would not permit conjecture to occupy even his
mind when, at length, the sound of even breathing told him that Nini and
Ivana slept.

After dreary passing of an hour, a faint light grew over the jungle,
silver and clear, and Kirby let his mind run back to the two deserted
ape-men communities which they had found and searched before dusk sent
them to the cave. From the signs of hasty departure, it looked as though
a far-reaching order had taken the brutes away from their dwellings, and
sent them--somewhere.

That somewhere seemed likely to be the great central community which
Ivana said was rumored to exist in the far reaches of the Rorroh. The
problem was how to locate the community through the hideous country. But
Kirby presently drove the question from his head. To-morrow's evils
could best be faced when morrow dawned.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enough light had grown now so that the swirling bosom of the river, and
a strip of sand directly below the cliff in which their cave was set,
were visible. As Kirby let his eyes wander to the lush growth beyond the
sand, he heard something which made him stir uneasily. Some creature
which suggested power and hugeness immeasurable was moving there.

The brush parted, and he saw plainly an animal with the bulk of a
two-story house. On two feet the nightmare thing stood, as lightly as a
cat, and then came down on all four feet as it ambled out on the sand
and extended into the lapping river a tremendous beak studded with
teeth. A smell of crushed weeds and the musty odor like that of a lion
house filled the night. The tyranosaur--it was more like a tyranosaur
than anything else--breathed heavily and guzzled in great mouthfuls of
water.

Kirby sat perfectly still. He hoped the thing would go away. But the
tyranosaur did not go away. All at once it hissed loudly and stood up,
its eyes glowing green and baleful, and Kirby leaned forward.

From the water was slithering another creature with a gigantic,
quivering, jelly body. Kirby saw to his horror that, in addition to four
short legs with webbed, claw-tipped feet, there sprouted from the body a
number of octopus tentacles. From the scabrous mottle of the head,
cruel, unintelligent, bestial eyes glared at the rearing tyranosaur.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the serpentine tentacles whipped out, slapped against the
tyranosaur's fore-shoulder to call forth a hiss and a short bellow. Then
other tentacles waved in the moonlight, and in a flash the tyranosaur
was enmeshed as by a score of slimy cables. He was not altogether
helpless. Suddenly the steam shovel of a beak buried itself in the jelly
body of the water animal, and there spurted out a flood of inky liquid.
The water animal emitted a sickening gurgle. But the tyranosaur's
advantage was only temporary. Closer and closer drew the ugly, scabrous
tentacles. The tyranosaur never had a chance. Its green eyes flared, the
shovel beak plunged and slashed, but never for a second did the
tentacles relax. As Kirby stared, he saw the water animal begin to back
up, dragging its gigantic enemy with it. For a second the whole night
was hideous with the sound of hisses, gurgles, dashing water. Then the
river boiled once and for all, and both animals sank in its depths.

Kirby chafed cold hands together and shivered a little, then turned to
see if Nini and Ivana had heard the struggle.

Fortunately, however, they still slept. And as if this peace which was
upon them were an omen of good, the jungle continued quiet for the next
hour. Kirby wakened them at last, and after a snatched nap, was in turn
awakened.

The three of them started again when the first glimmerings of dawn came
to the forest. Of food there was plenty--fruits which grew in profusion,
and some roots which Nini grubbed out of the earth. Having started along
the first trail which they encountered beside the river bank, they ate
as they walked.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby judged they had kept their steady gait for more than two hours
before a slight widening of the trail roused him from the preoccupation
into which he had fallen.

"See there," he exclaimed to both girls, and pointed at a grove of trees
with fanlike leaves which towered up to the right of the trail. "What
are those big bundles fastened to the lower limbs?"

Ivana glanced at Nini, who nodded as if in answer to a question.

"This must be one of the places where the ape-people leave their dead,"
Nini answered. "The bundles--But come over to them."

Kirby forced his way ahead until he stood beneath a huge, unsavory
bundle wrapped in roughly woven brown fibre, and wedged in a fork
between two limbs. Judging from the ugly odor which overhung the grove,
there could be no question about what the bundle contained. Nini and
Ivana, glancing at the scores of similar bundles which burdened the
trees of the whole grove, made wry faces. Kirby slung his rifle in the
crook of his arm, and nodded toward the trail.

"There must be a village somewhere near," he said.

A mile farther on they found what they were seeking, a colony of seventy
or eighty conical dwellings of mud and thatch, which were ranged in a
double circle about a central common of bare, well-trodden earth. It
took no long reconnaissance to discover that the town was deserted
completely of all inhabitants.

Ivana beckoned and darted to one of the nearest huts, and Kirby,
following her, found lying on the uneven earth floor within, a
half-skinned animal which resembled a small antelope. An obsidion knife
beside the carcass, the disordered condition of a couch of grass, the
sour odor of recent animal occupancy, all told their story.

"The owner left in a hurry," Kirby observed aloud.

Nini, who had gone beyond, to a larger hut which might have belonged to
a king ape, called out excitedly to them.

"A great number of apes have eaten a hurried meal here!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby entered the shadowed, foul-smelling interior of the central hut to
find her statement true. Broken meats, some raw, some cooked, lay on the
dirt floor, and scattered bits of fruit were mingled with them. The
ashes of a burned out fire at the hut entrance were cold, but had not
been for long.

"Do you think--" Ivana began.

"I think the whole of the Duca's horde came this way, fed, and went on,
taking everyone with them," Kirby finished.

"But which direction did they take?" asked Nini, who was standing at the
door of the big hut and had already begun to examine the crowding,
green, inscrutable walls of jungle which foamed up to the clearing on
all sides.

No less than seven trails wound away into the dark country beyond, and
Kirby saw that the question would not be an easy one.

Having hastily circled the clearing and peered down one trail after
another without finding a clue, he knew that it was the Duca's
intelligence which had made the ape-people depart without leaving even
tracks behind them. He did not like the situation.

"Well," he rumbled to his companions, "we may as well take our choice.
One chance in seven of coming out right!"

But the words were hardly out of his mouth before he pulled himself up
with a jerk, and cursed himself for having given in.

"Ivana! Nini!" Sharpness, a sudden ring of hope edged his voice. "Am I
seeing things, or is that--"

       *       *       *       *       *

As he pointed to a huge aloe bush down one of the trails to their left,
they started to run. Then Kirby knew that he was not seeing things. What
his first inspection of the trails had failed to show, he saw plainly
now.

Tied loosely to one branch of the aloe bush, almost concealed amidst the
deep green of foliage, was a bit of white cloth! In a second Kirby was
holding out to his companions a tiny strip of Naida's wedding gown.

"She knew we would come!" He stared down the trail with narrowed, keen
eyes.

How Naida had contrived to leave her signal was more than they knew. The
fact that she _had_ done so, sent all three of them down the trail at
driving speed.

An hour passed, then another, and the morning which had been barely born
when they first took the trail, wore on to the sultriness and vast,
colored light of a tropical noon. Twice the main trail forked, and twice
they found an unobtrusive bit of cloth to guide them beyond the works.
When the hands of Kirby's still useful watch pointed to twelve, they
paused to eat and rest. Then they pushed on.

Meanwhile, the country through which they passed left Kirby with a clear
understanding of why Naida and her people had shunned the Rorroh forest
down the centuries of time.

Just one thing which stuck in his head was the sight of a small creature
like a marmoset, sticking an inquisitive nose into the heart of a
sickly-sweet plant which resembled a terrestrial nepenthe. No sooner had
the little pink snout touched the green and maroon splotched petals,
than the plant writhed, closed its leaves, and swallowed the monkey
whole. Little squeaks of agony and terror sounded for a moment, and
ceased.

       *       *       *       *       *

At midafternoon they paused in a spot where a forest of trees with
whorled tops were slowly being strangled to death by immense orchids of
every conceivable shape and color, and by a kind of creeping mistletoe
which grew almost as they watched. Here also, the ground was covered
with fluffy, grey-green moss which seethed constantly as if it were a
carpet of maggots. Both Ivana and Nini warned Kirby on his life not to
touch or go near the moss, and a moment later he knew why.

From the forest came the flash of a small, five-toed horse being pursued
by some animal with a hyena head that barked. At the edge of the mossy
glade the hyena swerved aside, but the terrified horse plunged straight
out on the carpet of moss. Instantly the air was filled with the sound
of animal screams, and a series of tiny, muffled explosions. A cloud of
greenish-red mist swirled about the horse. Quivering, still screaming,
the animal went down on its knees, and as the reddish green smoke fell
on him and settled, it became a mass of growing moss spores.

Before Kirby's eyes, the pitiful animal was covered by a shroud of green
that spread over him and cloaked him, licking over all with tiny sounds
like far off muffled drums as fresh spore cases developed and burst. The
screams died. Even as Kirby drew the girls to him and they passed on,
the horse's nostrils, eyes, mouth were filled with choking green moss;
and he lay still.

       *       *       *       *       *

On and on, deeper into the jungle Kirby pushed, and never for a moment
did his companions falter. But the way was not so easy now, for nerves
were jaded, muscles sore, and no human will could have been powerful
enough to cast aside the growing fear for Naida.

Fear came finally to a head when, toward dusk, Kirby sighted a fork
ahead of them, approached it confidently to look for Naida's sign, and
found nothing.

"Oh Lord!" he muttered, and realized that it was the first time any of
them had spoken for long.

"There must be something to guide us!" Ivana exclaimed as she searched
with questing eyes through the swiftly deepening gloom of evening.

Nini, making an effort to keep up hope in spite of the paleness which
came to her lovely face, darted down both paths, glancing as she went at
every bush and shrub. But she returned in a moment, and as she shook
her head, her great eyes were somber.

Kirby grunted, scratched behind his ear. Then, however, he stifled an
exclamation, and clutched at the hands of both girls.

On one of the two trails appeared suddenly in the dusk an ape-creature.
Kirby saw at once that the thing was small--a female undoubtedly--and
that it had spied them and was moving toward them with all speed. And
borne in upon him most certainly was the fact that the ape-woman was
making signals of peace. In her outstretched hand flickered through the
gloom a strip of cloth that was gauzy and white.

Again--a strip of Naida's gown.

"If you know any words of her tongue, call to her," Kirby said sharply.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ivana obeyed. All three of them started forward. The ape-woman, after
returning the hail in creaking gutturals, came up to them, and with an
unexpected look of pathos and entreaty in her face, began to address the
girls with a flood of talk.

Word after creaking word she poured out while Nini and Ivana listened in
silence. Finally Kirby could stand the suspense no longer.

"What is it, Ivana? What does she say? Your eyes are lighting up with
hope! Tell me--"

Ivana smiled and turned toward him, while the ape-woman still looked her
entreaty.

"She says," Ivana announced bluntly, "that she and the other women
amongst their people, do not want any of the girls of our race to be
taken by their males. Already the men are quarreling about Naida. They
will not look at their own women. Naida told this woman that we would be
following, and sent her to lead us to the place where the ape-people are
assembling!"

Kirby felt his lips tightening in a grim smile at the thought that
jealousy was not unknown even to the semi-human creatures of this
neither world. He looked at Nini and Ivana during a stretched out
second. Then he moved.

"Good," he snapped. "We go on at once."

That was his only recognition of what was surely one of the important
happenings of a lifetime. But for all that, his tired brain, which so
lately had felt the chill of black depression, was suddenly set on fire
with triumph and thanksgiving.


CHAPTER XII

As they marched rapidly, the ape-woman, who called herself Gori,
succeeded in making them understand that most of the ape-tribes,
commanded by the Duca and his caciques, were assembled in the central
community toward which they were heading, that grave danger of some sort
threatened Naida, and that the need for haste was great. But what the
danger was, the two girls could not understand.

"We can't make out what is going to happen--what they plan to do
to-night," Ivana whispered at last to Kirby. "All Gori says is that we
must rescue Naida and take her away, and must take the Duca away so that
he cannot influence the men any more. And she keeps repeating that we
must hurry."

"And you can't find out what we must rescue Naida _from_?"

Ivana shook her head.

"I'm afraid we're facing something of an appalling nature, as dangerous
to ourselves as to Naida. But I know nothing more."

By the time the silver glow which corresponded to moonlight flooded the
jungle, Gori had left the open trail, and was leading them across
country which humans could not have negotiated without the guidance she
offered. Advancing cautiously always, she stopped for long seconds at a
time to reconnoitre, shifting her huge ears about and changing their
shape, twitching her nostrils, and glancing hither and thither with
bright little eyes. Sometimes they passed immense spike-tipped flowers
ten feet in diameter, with fleshy yellow leaves which gave out a
nauseating stench. Vines with long, recurved thorns and blossoms of deep
scarlet, laced the undergrowth together and made passing dangerous.
Fire-flies drifted past, and all above and about them flapped moths as
big as bats.

Kirby, his clothes almost torn from his body, sweat pouring from every
pore, heard the labored breathing of the girls, and wondered how they
could hang on. But they did, and after a long time, Gori, halting in the
midst of a slight clearing, held up a warning hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

A queer sensation came over Kirby. As he stared and listened, he
realized that the twinkles he saw far ahead were not fire-flies, as he
had thought, but lights. In the frosted moon glow, Nini and Ivana drew
close, and Kirby clasped their hands and pressed them for a second. Too
tired to exult further he was, even though they seemed close to their
goal of goals.

Gori swung her hairy arm in a signal, and with rifles clasped carefully,
they began to advance. When, five minutes later, they stood in the heart
of a rank glade beyond which they could see nothing, Gori spoke to the
two girls in her creaking whisper, and Nini laid a restraining hand on
Kirby's.

"We have gone as far as Gori dares! She says we must climb a tree here,
and watch what will go on in a clearing just beyond this thicket."

"And we still don't know what we're getting into," Kirby muttered.

But at any rate they had reached the end of their march.

Exultation did come to Kirby now, but still he was too completely
fagged, as were both girls, to give much sign. Gori pointed to a tree
some fifty feet away, which shot up to a great, foliage-crowned height.
They moved toward it, and in a moment were climbing, Gori first, the
girls after her, and Kirby last.

"Here we are," Ivana presently whispered, at the same time drawing
herself out on a limb just beneath one on which Gori and Nini had
crawled.

Kirby found himself hedged in by tasselated leaves through which he
could not see. The foliage thinned, however, and soon Ivana halted,
perched herself in a comfortable position. Kirby, making himself at ease
beside her, and seeing that Nini and Gori were in place, turned his eyes
slowly, expectantly downward.

       *       *       *       *       *

At first, all that he saw from his bird's-eye perch, was a circular
clearing two hundred yards across, which was surrounded on all sides by
lowering jungle. In the exact center of the circle, like a splotch of
ink on gray paper, there gaped a deep hole which might have measured six
feet in diameter. Around this hole, eight poles as tall and stout as
telephone poles stood up in bristling array. The moonlight showed that
the whitish earth of the clearing was tamped smooth as though thousands
of creatures had danced or walked about there for centuries. But not a
living form was visible.

A grunt of disappointment escaped Kirby after that one look. When he
looked beyond the clearing, however, a change came to his feelings.

A quarter of a mile away, lights were twinkling--the same ones which had
been visible on the last stretch of the journey. And the moonlight
touched the little conical roofs of fully two hundred huts of the
ape-people. No sound was audible save the soughing of night wind in the
trees, the shrilling of insects. Nevertheless, there stole over Kirby
all at once a feeling that the great ape-village was crowded to
overflowing. What was more, he felt himself touched by an eery
sensation--familiar these days--of evil to come.

Ivana, seated with her rifle across her knees, stirred on the limb
beside him.

"Oh," she whispered suddenly, "I am afraid of this place!"

Kirby took her hand.

"I know. Maybe it is the sensation of all the legions of the apes herded
together so silently in their village. I wish we knew what to expect
from them. I wish--"

       *       *       *       *       *

But he broke off, and called softly to Nini on the limb above. She
looked down with a drawn expression about her mouth.

"Are you all right?" Kirby whispered.

"Yes. But--Well, are both of _you_ all right? Gori says we have reached
here in time, but I--" A gasp of uneasiness escaped her, and Kirby heard
Ivana echo it. "There is something about that black, silent hole out
there in the clearing, and about those poles sticking up like fangs,
that makes me terribly, terribly afraid. Oh, what are they planning?
Where is Naida? What are they going to do to her?"

Kirby whistled in a low key. He had not thought about the black hole in
the clearing.

"Hum," he muttered, "that's interesting. Ivana, Nini, what do you
suppose--"

But he got no answer. Gori's twitching lips grimaced them to silence.

The next instant, the stillness of the night was hurled aside by a
howling, gurgling shout from a hundred, a thousand hysterically
distended ape throats. With the sickening sound came from the village
the sullen roaring of drums.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ten minutes later, a Kirby who was cold with apprehension and wonder
looked down from his leaf-crowned height at such a spectacle as he knew
human eyes had never before seen. The shouting had died away, the drums
were silenced. Crammed into the clearing, their foul, hairy bodies
packed close together, the silver light glinting against rolling red
eyes and grinning white teeth, stood fully a thousand apes!

Once the first tumult of shouting in the village had died, they had come
on in silence, and in orderly procession. Those who bore the
drums--huge gourds with heads of stretched skin--had formed a line
entirely around the outer diameter of the circular clearing. Then
others, lugging vats of a dark, heady-smelling liquor, had deposited
their burden beside the drums, and formed a second circle. The balance
of the thousand had crowded itself together as best it might, leaving
bare the center of the clearing with its black hole and fangs of poles.
Kirby, looking down at these legions, did not wonder that cold sweat
wetted his back.

Capable of thinking about only one thing--Naida--he was trying with all
his strength not to think. Ivana, her face blanched in the light which
filtered their camouflage of leaves, sat rigid, her hands locked about
her cold rifle. On the branch above, Nini and Gori were as still as
mummies. No one had spoken since the vanguard of apes had appeared.

But at last Nini leaned close to Kirby.

"Have you any idea of what all this means?"

A draught of hot night air carried up a stench of drunkenness, and the
goaty odor of massed animal bodies.

"No," Kirby whispered. "I suppose, from Gori's having brought us here,
that Naida is going to appear somehow. We've simply got to trust that
Gori knows what she is about."

"But listen--" Ivana suppressed a shudder. "Suppose they should bring
Naida here presently to force her to take part in some ceremony at which
we can only guess. Gori, who thinks we can work miracles, supposes we
can rescue Naida. But I--I'm not so certain. Is there _anything_ we can
do?"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was exactly that question which had made Kirby fight to keep himself
from thinking. His face turned gray before he answered. But answer he
did, finally.

"Yes, there is one thing we can do, Ivana. We've got to be frank with
each other, and so far, this is the _only_ thing I've been able to
figure out. If Naida is brought here, and they make any move to harm her
or torture her, we can, and we will, shoot her quickly, before harm or
pain comes."

A grim silence settled once more. During the last miles of march in the
jungle, there had persisted in Kirby's heart the hope that there would
be at least _something_ favorable in whatever situation they might
encounter. His spirits were so low now that he dared not speak again.

Amongst the noiseless sea of ape-men below them came, every now and
again, a little ripple of motion as some anthropoid shadow fell out of
his place, approached the liquor vats, and swilled down the black brew,
a quart at a gulp. But mostly there was little commotion. Ivana drew a
sibilant breath and said that she wished something would happen.

"I wish," Kirby answered tensely, "that we knew _what_ is going to
happen."

But the nightmare waiting was not to go on forever. Kirby leaned forward
and pointed.

It was only instinct that had made him know action must come. For a
second, no change in the expression of the ape-men, no movement in their
crammed ranks, was visible. Then, however, a queer, subdued grunting
rumbled deep down in many throats, and those who had faced the
hundred-foot space in the center of the clearing squatted down on their
hams.

In the back of the crowd necks were craned. The stronger shoved the
weaker in an effort to get a better view of the cleared stage, and a few
ape-men who had been drinking hurried on unsteady legs to their places.

"The drums!" Kirby whispered then.

       *       *       *       *       *

With almost military precision, the scores of leather-faced creatures
who had led the procession into the clearing, clasped the skin-headed
gourds to their shaggy bellies, and stood with free arm raised as
though awaiting a signal. Nini moved in her position, and Kirby felt
Ivana shiver and edge close to him.

From the front rank of the crowd, there sprang up a great male creature
with the face of a gargoyle and the body of a jungle giant. Just once he
reeled on his feet, as though black alcohol had befuddled him, then he
steadied himself, flung both arms above his head, and rolled out a
command which burst upon Kirby's ears like thunder.

It was as if the whole cavern of the lower world, and the whole of the
round earth itself, had been rocked uneasily, dreadfully by the
bellowing, crashing explosion of the drums. Maddened by the turmoil he
had let loose, the gargoyle-faced giant ape-man leered about him with
blood-shot, drunken eyes, and beat on his cicatrized chest with massive
fists. Suddenly he let out a bellow. Straight up into the air he sprang
in a wild leap. When he came down, he was dancing, and the portentious,
the sickeningly mysterious ceremony for which such solemn preparation
had been made, was begun.

Kirby drew a rasping breath. Knowing that there must be some definite
reason for the dance having begun just when and as it had, he looked
beyond the solitary dancing giant, on beyond the crowded legions of the
apes, toward the village. There, where the main trail from the community
approached the clearing, he saw precisely the thing which he had both
hoped desperately and dreaded terribly to find.

       *       *       *       *       *

Headed directly toward the clearing, moving down the trail with slow,
majestic pace, came a procession headed by a bodyguard of ape-men and
augmented by other men whose nakedness was covered by unmistakable,
unforgetable priestly robes of gray.

All at once the ape-people in the clearing began to scuffle apart,
opening a lane down which the procession might pass to the central
stage with its dancer, its ink spot orifice, and its fangs of tall
poles. Kirby, watching the congregation, watching the majestic approach
of gray robes through the night, wiped away from his forehead a sweat of
fear.

"I think," Nini called in a voice pitched high to outsound the drums,
"that the--the Duca is with them!"

"Yes." Kirby pointed jerkily. "In the middle of the procession, there,
surrounded by his caciques!"

The Duca!

Yet his approach did not hold Kirby. Directly behind the priests were
emerging now from the jungle a new company of ape-men. Squinting his
eyes, Kirby saw that two of them were lugging on a pole across their
shoulders a curious burden--a sort of monstrous bird cage of barked
withes. Crouched on the floor of the cage in a little motionless, white
heap--

But Kirby closed his eyes. Ivana, cowering against him, gulped as though
she were going to be sick. Nini leaned down from above and looked at
them with dilated eyes. Although none of them spoke, all knew that they
had found Naida at last.

Kirby was the first to pull himself up. Opening his eyes, he stared long
at the white gowned, motionless shape within the cage. Next summing up
the whole situation--the cage surrounded by an armed band, the clearing
crammed with a thousand ape-men--he shook his head. Afterward, he made a
quick movement with his hands.

Ivana, seeing that movement, seeing the expression on his face, started
out of her daze.

"No! No! Oh, there must be some other way out for her! There must--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Her cry, half a shriek, did not change Kirby's look. What he had done
with his hands was to throw a shell into the chamber of his rifle. Now
he held the rifle grimly, ready to carry it to his shoulder.

The procession with the bodyguard of ape-men at its head, the renegade
Duca and his caciques following next, and the cage bringing up the rear,
advanced relentlessly down the lane to the central stage. The
gargoyle-faced ape-man who held the stage alone danced with increasing
wildness, writhing, twisting, with weird suppleness. Upon the dancing
giant the procession bore down, and before him it finally halted.

The halt left the Duca and the king ape facing each other, and the ape
ended his dance. After each had given a salute made by raising their
arms, both Duca and the king ape turned to face the creatures who were
standing with the cage slung across their shoulders. Whereupon the
bearers of the cage advanced with it until they stood between two of the
tall poles. There, facing the ominous hole in the center of the
clearing, with a pole on either side of them, the ape-men lowered the
cage to the ground.

Kirby felt his last hope and courage ebbing. Now he noticed that each
pole was equipped with a rope which passed through a hole near its top,
like a thread through the eye of a needle. And while he stared at the
dangling ropes, the ape-men made one end of each fast to a ring in the
top of the cage. The next instant they leaped back, and began to heave
at the other end of the lines.

From the drums came a quicker pounding, a more head-splitting volume of
thunder. Over all the ape-people who watched the show, passed a shiver
of what seemed to be whole-souled, ecstatic satisfaction. Slowly, as the
two ape-men heaved hard, the cage swung off the ground, and slowly rose
higher and higher into the moonlit air.

       *       *       *       *       *

When finally the thing hung high above the heads of the multitude,
swaying midway between its tall supports, the ape-men who had done the
hoisting fastened their lines to cleats on the poles. Then they turned
to the Duca and the giant king who stood behind them, executed a queer,
lumbering bow, and fell back to the rear.

The next moment it seemed as though every creature in the clearing--men
and those who were only half men--had gone crazy. The king flung himself
into the air as if he were a mass of bounding rubber. Following his
lead, the whole assembly let out howls that drowned even the drums, and
then began to sway, to squirm, to leap, even as their king was doing
before them.

The caciques and the Duca joined in the madness of foul dancing as
heartily as any there. Their eyes were flaming, their long robes
flapping, their beards streaming.

On his perch in the tree Kirby muttered an oath which was lost, swept
away like a breath, in the shrieking turmoil of sound. Then he turned to
Ivana.

"They've brought Naida here to sacrifice her."

"But _why_?" Ivana's sweet face was frozen in lines of horror. "I've
been able to guess what was going to happen to her. But--_sacrifice_.
Why will it be that?"

"Don't you see?" Looking up to include Nini, Kirby found his hands
quivering against his rifle. "It is easy to understand. In the temple
yesterday, what the Duca hoped to do was to kidnap most, or all, of the
girls for the ape-people. But he was able to get only Naida. The first
result was that the ape-men started to quarrel over the one girl. From
what Gori says, trouble started on all sides at once. It became
inadvisable to let Naida live. So the Duca, in his shrewdness, planned a
sacrifice. By sacrificing Naida, he rids himself of a source of
contention amongst the ape-men. He also hopes his act will win favor
from his Gods, and make them help him when he is ready to launch a new
attempt to capture _all_ the girls."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ivana and Nini looked at each other, then at Kirby, and horror was
etched deeper into their faces.

"I think," gulped Ivana, "that you--are right. I--begin to understand."

Nini leaned close to them.

"Tell us, then, _how_ this sacrifice is to be made."

Silent at that, Kirby presently made a heavy gesture toward the
maelstrom of howling, leaping animals below them.

"I couldn't guess at first. Now I think I can. They have placed her in
that cage and swung it high above the black hole you were afraid of.
What can that mean except that she is to be offered to--to--"

It was a monstrous theory which had stunned his hope and courage, and to
voice the thing in words was too gruesome.

His bare suggestion, however, made Ivana pass a hand limply over her
forehead and look at him with blank, stricken eyes. Nini tottered so
uncertainly that Gori, who had remained motionless and silent
throughout, had to steady her with muscular arms. If it was impossible
for Kirby to utter his fears aloud, he had no need to speak to make them
understood.

"And--and we can do nothing?" Nini choked at last.

"You can see for yourself how she is surrounded. If we had been able to
get here sooner, we might have done something. Now--"

Kirby's voice trailed off, and he gave an agonized look at his rifle.

       *       *       *       *       *

The terrific dance in the clearing was going forward with madness which
increased second by second. It had been a general debauch at first, with
the whole thousand of the apes bellowing and squirming. Now a change was
becoming apparent. Red eyes which had caught the glare of ultimate
madness, focused upon the caciques, the Duca, and the great king, all of
whom were swaying together on the central stage. As they looked, the
horde of ape-men broke loose with a heightened frenzy of noise and
movement too overwhelming for Kirby to follow. He leaned forward, making
an effort to see what actions of Duca and king could be so influencing
the congregation. And then he saw.

Both of those central figures, the one with hair-covered giant's body
and evilly grimacing face, the other with white robes and whipping
silver hair, were definitely emulating the motions of a serpent!

It was as if the angles and joints had disappeared from their bodies.
They were become gliding lengths of muscle as swift, as loathsome in
their supple dartings and coilings as any snake lashing across the
expanses of primeval jungle. Lost in what they did, unconscious of the
nightmare, demoniac legion before which they danced, they had eyes only
for the empty, ominous hole beneath Naida's cage. As they circled the
hole, drawing ever and ever closer to it, they opened and closed their
arms with the motion of great serpent jaws biting and striking.

"God in Heaven!" Kirby cried in a voice which shrilled with horror and
then broke.

It was not alone the Duca's dance which had wrung the shout from him. As
Nina and Ivana shrieked and cowered, as Gori twitched, gasped, buried
her head in trembling arms, Kirby knew that Naida was fully aware of
what was going on--had been, perhaps, from the beginning.

Slowly, numbly she raised herself from her huddled position, rose to her
knees, and clutching with despairing hands at the sides of her cage,
looked out from between the bars.

       *       *       *       *       *

The king and Duca edged closer to the hole until they were dancing upon
its very brink. From that position, they stared down into the depths,
their faces tense and strained. And then their look became radiant,
exalted, joyous. Suddenly the Duca leaped back. He shrieked something
at the gargoyle ape, and they flung their arms high in a commanding,
mighty signal which was directed across the nightmare legion of ape-men,
to the drums.

As Kirby winced in expectancy, the drums ceased to roar. Over the night
smashed a hideous concussion of silence, deafening, absolute. And the
ape-men--all of them--and the Duca, his caciques, and the king, ceased
to dance. As if a whirlwind had hurled them, the caciques scattered in
all directions. The Duca, having already leaped back from the gaping
orifice, suddenly turned and ran with blurred speed over to the
slobbering, deadly still front rank of the congregation. An instant
later the king crouched down beside him, and the whole stage was left
bare and deserted.

Kirby gave one look at Naida, found her staring down, deeper and deeper
down, into the hole which yawned beneath her so blackly. Then Kirby
lowered his eyes until he, too, stared at the opening.

Amidst the pressing silence there stole from the earth an uneasy sound
as of some immense thing waking and stirring. Came a hissing note as of
escaping steam. The tribes of the ape-men waited in silent rapture.
Kirby saw Naida still looking down, and felt Ivana crouch against him,
fainting. He held his rifle tighter, and continued to stare.

Something red, like two small flames, licked up above the edge of the
pit. Then Kirby gasped and all but went limp. Up and out into the
moonlight slid a glistening white lump that moved from side to side and
licked at the night with flickering black and red tipped forked tongue.

The glistening white lump was the head of Quetzalcoatl, buried God of
the People of the Temple. It was wider and bigger than an elephant's,
and the round snake body could not have been encircled by a man's two
arms. Kirby guessed at the probable length of the Serpent in terms of
hundreds of feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sick, numb, he glanced at Naida, who was still staring silently, and
hitched his rifle half up to his shoulder. But he did not look down the
sights yet. Although it was time, and more than time, that he fired, he
would not do it until the last possible second, when nothing else
remained.

Slowly from the hole slid a fifteen or twenty-foot column of the body,
and Quetzalcoatl, thus reared, looked about him with a pair of eyes
immense and not like snake's eyes, but heavily lidded and lashed; eyes
that stared in a wise, evil way; eyes glittering and round and black as
ink. After a time the mouth opened in a silent snarl, showing great
white fangs and recurved simitars of teeth. The head was snow white,
leperous in its scabby, scaly roughness, with here and there a patch of
what looked like greenish fungus. From the rounded body trailed a short,
unnatural, sickening growth of--feathers. Old and evil and very wise the
Feathered Serpent seemed as his forked tongue flickered in and out and
he stared at the ape horde, who stared back silently.

He seemed in no hurry to devote his attention to the cage set forth for
his delectation. The black eyes rolled beneath their lashes, staring now
at the Duca in his robes, and again at the huddled ape-people. But after
ghastly seconds, Quetzalcoatl at last had seen enough.

Again the moonlight glinted against simitar teeth as the great, white,
puffy mouth yawned in its silent snarl. Quetzalcoatl reared his head a
little higher, slid further from his hole, and then looked up at the
dangling cage of barked withes.

In Kirby's mind stirred cloudily a remembrance of moments in the past:
the feel of Naida's first kiss, her look as they advanced to the altar
in the temple. Then he saw things as they were now, with Naida
surrounded by all the tribes of the apes, and with Quetzalcoatl staring
from beneath heavily lidded lashes at the whiteness of her.

Suddenly Kirby stirred to free his shoulder of Ivana's supine weight
against it, and he made himself look down his rifle. He let the breath
half out of his lungs, and nursed the trigger.

       *       *       *       *       *

But he did not fire.

All at once he started so violently that he almost hurtled from the
tree. Suddenly, trembling, he lowered his rifle.

"Oh, thank God!" he yelped in the silence of the night.

The idea which had transformed him was perhaps the conception of a
lunatic. But it was still an idea, and offered a chance.

Again Kirby peered down his rifle. But he no longer aimed at Naida. As
Quetzalcoatl lifted white fangs, Kirby aimed deliberately at him, and
turned loose his fire.

With the first shot, the Serpent lurched back from the cage, snapped his
jaws, and closed evil, black eyes. From one lidded socket squirted dark
blood. As a second and third shot crashed into the cavernous fanged
mouth, and others ripped into the flat skull, Quetzalcoatl seemed dazed.
His head wavered back and forth and his hiss filled the night, but he
did nothing.

But all at once Kirby felt that he was _going_ to do something in a
second, and a great calm came upon him. He quickly jammed home a fresh
clip of shells.

"Nini! Ivana! Fire at the Serpent. Give him everything you've got! Do
you understand? Fire! He thinks that the ape-people have hurt him, and
he will be after them in a second. If we have any luck, he will do to
them what we never could have done, and maybe destroy himself at the
same time! Me, I'm going down there and get Naida now!"


CHAPTER XIII

No sooner did Kirby see comprehension in the girls' faces than he swung
around and let go of his perch. As he crashed, caught the next limb
below him, and let go to crash to another, he had all he could do to
suppress a yelp of joy. For all at once every voice in the ape
congregation was raised in howls and screams of devastated terror.

He did not care how he got down from the tree. Seconds and half seconds
were what counted. From the last limb above the ground he swung into
space, and a split second later staggered to his feet, clutched his
rifle, and started for the clearing. His lungs seemed collapsed and both
ankles shattered. He did not care. Not when the ape screams were growing
louder with every step he took. Not when he heard Nini and Ivana pouring
down from their tree a continuation of the scorching fire he had
started.

Panting, his breath only half regained, but steeled to make the fight of
his life, he tore from the jungle into the clearing just in time to see
a twisting, pain-convulsed seventy-foot coil of white muscle lash up and
strike Naida's cage a blow which knocked it like a ball in the air.
Naida screamed and hung to the bars.

But she was all right. It was not against her that Quetzalcoatl was
venting his wrath: the blow had been blind accident. As Kirby stood at
the clearing's edge, he knew to a certainty that Quetzalcoatl's reaction
to sudden pain had been all he had dared hope.

In front of him forty or fifty ape-bodies lay in a crushed heap. While
yard after yard of the Serpent's bleached length streamed out of the
hole, the hundreds of feet of coils already in the clearing suddenly
whipped about a whole squadron of ape-men, and with a few constrictions
annihilated them as if they had been ants. Across the clearing, the
leperous head reared up as high as the trees and swooped down, fangs
gleaming. The howls of the ape-men trying to flee, the screams of those
who had been caught, rose until they became all one scream.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Kirby had not left the safety of the tree merely to get a ringside
view of carnage. He faced his next, his final task unhesitatingly.
Straight out he leaped from the shadows of the jungle into the clearing,
out into the presence of the beleagured, screaming ape-men. Well enough
he knew that those creatures, despite their frenzy, might sight him and
fall upon him at any second; well enough he knew that a single flick of
the white coils all over the clearing could crush him instantly. But the
time to worry about those hazards would be when they beset him. With a
yell as piercing as any in the whole bedlam, Kirby rushed forward.

High up in the moonlit vault of the night, swaying between the two poles
which supported it, hung the white cage which was Naida's prison. By the
time Kirby had sprinted fifty yards, he knew that his yells had reached
Naida. For she staggered to her knees and looked straight at him. A
second later, though, he realized that the almost inevitable recognition
of him by ape-men had come to pass.

Eight or ten of the creatures, left unmolested for a second by the
Serpent, halted in the mad run they were making for the sheltering
jungle, and while one pointed with hairy arm, the others let out
shrieks. Kirby gritted his teeth in something like despair. Then he
realized that the worst danger--Quetzalcoatl's blurred coils--was not
threatening him so far. And he went on, straight toward the ape-men.

He did not look where, how, or at whom he struck. All he knew was that
his rifle blazed, and as he clubbed at soft flesh with the butt, blood
spurted, and new screams filled the night. He felt and half saw big,
stinking bodies going down, and clawed his way forward, around them,
over them. Then he felt no more bodies, and knew that he was through. A
little farther he ran over the trampled earth, and stopped and looked
up.

The howls of the living, the shrieks of the dying deafened him. Renewed
shots from the rifles in the tree, made the Serpent lash about in a
dazzling white blur, smashing trees, apes, everything in its path. But
Kirby, finding himself still safe, scarcely heard or saw. His eyes,
turned upward, saw one thing only.

"Naida!"

       *       *       *       *       *

She had snapped two of the withes of the cage and was leaning forward
through the opening. Her face was livid with horror and exhaustion, but
she was able to look at him with eyes that glowed.

"You--you came!" she gasped. "You came to me!"

In a flash Kirby jumped over to the poles and began to cast off one of
the lines which held the cage aloft.

"Get ready for a bump!" he shouted, as he lowered away, arms straining.

Paying out the one line left the cage suspended from the second, but let
it sweep from its position between the poles, down toward one pole. As
the thing struck the tall support, Kirby bounded over to stand beneath
it, only too sharply aware of the death waiting for him on every side,
but ignoring it. Naida still hung suspended a good twenty feet above
him, but there was no time to let go the other line. He braced himself
and held up his arms.

"Jump!" he yelled.

Then he saw the white gown sweeping down toward him, felt the crash of a
soft body against his, and staggered back. Recovered in a tenth of a
second, he drew a deep breath, and looked at Naida beside him, tall and
brave, unhurt.

"Are you able to run?" he snapped, and then, the moment she nodded,
motioned toward the jungle.

Behind them, in front, on all sides, rose screams so horrible that he
wondered even then if he would ever forget. As he started to run, he
realized that when Naida had finally landed in his arms, the nearest
squirming loop of the Serpent had been no more than four yards away, and
that, right now, if their luck failed, a single unfortunate twist of the
incredible hundreds of feet of white muscle could still end things for
them.

       *       *       *       *       *

But luck was not going to fail. Somehow Kirby knew it as they sprinted
side by side, and the sheltering jungle loomed closer every second. And
a moment later, something beside his own inner faith made him know it,
too.

"Look, Naida! Look!" he screeched all at once.

At the upper end of the clearing, where an unthinkable slaughter was
going on, there leaped out from amongst a surging mass of apes, leaped
out from almost directly beneath a downward smashing blur of white snake
folds, a figure which Kirby had not seen or thought about for many
seconds.

The Duca's robe hung in tatters from his body. Blood had smeared his
white hair. His eyes were those of a man gone mad from fear. And as he
escaped the tons of muscle which so nearly had engulfed him, he began to
run even as Kirby felt himself running.

Straight toward him and Naida, Kirby saw the man spurt, but whether the
mad eyes recognized them or not, he could not tell, nor did he care. All
at once his feeling that they would escape the clearing, became
conviction.

For suddenly the same single twitch of Quetzalcoatl's vast folds which
might have finished them, if luck had not held, put an end to the Duca's
retreat. At one moment the man's path was clear. The next--

Kirby, running for dear life, gasped, and heard Naida cry out beside
him.

The great loops flashed, twisted, and where had been an open way for
the Duca, loomed a wall of scaly white flesh. The living wall twitched,
closed in; and as the Duca dodged and leaped to no avail, a cry shrilled
across the night--a cry that cut like a knife.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby saw no more. But it was likely that most, if not all, of the
caciques had gone with the Duca.

Somehow, anyhow, in but a few seconds more, Kirby dove into the spot
from which he had left the jungle to enter the clearing. As Naida
pressed against him, winded but still strong, he found his best hopes
for immediate retreat realized, for Gori, Nini, and Ivana, down from
their tree, ran toward them.

"She is all right," he said with a gesture which cut short the outbursts
ready to come. "But we've got to keep going. Ivana, tell Gori that her
people are gone, wiped out, but that if she will cast her lot with us,
we will not forget what she has done. Come on!"

With Gori leading them they ran, stumbling, recovering themselves,
stumbling again. To breathe became an agony. But not until many minutes
later, when they plowed into the cover of a fern belt whose blackness
not even the moonlight had pierced, did Kirby call a halt.

Here he swept a final glance behind him, listened long for sounds of
pursuit, and relaxed a little only when none came to disturb the night
stillness. However, that relaxation, now that he permitted it at last,
meant something.

The complete silence gave him final conviction that what he had said
about the whole ape-people being destroyed was true. As for the
Serpent--well, perhaps he was destroyed even as they were. Perhaps not.
In any case the grip which Quetzalcoatl held upon the imagination of the
People of the Temple had been destroyed by this night's work, and that
was what counted most. The Serpent would be worshipped no longer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kirby reached out in the darkness and found Naida's hand.

"Come along," he said to all of the party. "I think the past is--the
past. And with Gori to guide us out of the jungle, and our own brains to
guide us through the jungle of self-government after that, I think the
future ought to be bright enough."

Ivana and Nini both chuckled as they moved again, and Gori, hearing her
name spoken in a kindly voice, twitched her ears appreciatively. Naida
drew very close to Kirby.

"What are you thinking about?" she asked presently.

"The--temple," he answered.

"About the crown which probably is still lying on the altar there?"

Kirby looked up in surprise.

"Why, I had forgotten about that!"

"What was it, then?"

"But what could I have been thinking about except how you looked when we
came together in that gloomy place, and walked forward, side by side?
_Now_ have I told you enough?"

Naida laughed.

"There is so much to be done!" Kirby exclaimed then. "As soon as
possible, we must climb to the Valley of the Geyser, go on into the
outer world, and there seek carefully for men who are willing, and fit,
to come here. And that is only one task. Others come crowding to me
every second. But first--"

"What?" Naida asked softly.

"The temple. Naida, we will reach the plateau sometime to-morrow. All of
the girls who kept watch there will be waiting for us, and it will be a
time of happiness. May we not, then, go to the temple? There will be no
priests. But we will make our pledges without them. Tell me, may I hope
that it will be so--to-morrow?"

Naida did not answer at once. She did not even nod. But presently her
shoulder, still fragrant with faint perfume, brushed his. She clasped
his hand then, and as they walked on in silence, Kirby knew.




The Reader's Corner

[Illustration: The Readers' Corner

A Meeting Place for Readers of
Astounding Stories]


"Literature"

Dear Editor:

After comparison with various other magazines which specialize in the
publication of Science Fiction, we--The Scientific Fiction Library
Ass'n, of 1457 First Ave., New York City--have found that your magazine,
Amazing Stories, publishes stories to which the term "literature" may be
applied in its real sense. A fine example of this is the story "Murder
Madness," by Murray Leinster. Others of the finer novels are: "The
Beetle Horde," by Victor Rousseau, and, up to the present installment,
"Earth, the Marauder," by Arthur J. Burks. "Brigands of the Moon," by
Ray Cummings, was interesting and well-written, but it was not
literature (not a story which you will remember and read over again). Of
the shorter stories, the novelettes, the best are: "Spawn of the Stars,"
by Charles W. Diffin, "Monsters of Moyen," by Arthur J. Burks, and "The
Atom Smasher," by Victor Rousseau.

Since the magazine started, there are only three stories that did not
belong in the magazine, and were not even interesting. These are: "The
Corpse on the Grating," by Hugh B. Cave; "The Stolen Mind," by M.
Staley, and the last (I wonder that the editors who used such good sense
in picking the other finer stories, let it pass), "Vampires of Venus,"
by Anthony Pelcher. May you keep up the high standard of fiction you are
publishing at present.--Nathan Greenfeld, 873 Whitlock Ave., New York
City.


You See--It Didn't!

Dear Editor:

Firstly, let me say that I am sending a year's subscription to
Astounding Stories, which will tell you that they are good.

On the average, the stories are of good literary merit and plot.
However, there is one thing that seems to be getting rather pushed
into the background and that is the second part of your title,
"Super-Science." If this is to be a Science Fiction magazine let us have
it so. I am kicking against stories like "Murder Madness" and the like.
They are really excellent in every way but just need that tincture of
a little scientific background to make them super-excellent. "Brigands
of the Moon" and "The Moon Master" seem to me more the type of story
"our mag" should publish, from its name.

No doubt this criticism will leave you cold and this effusion find its
way into the nearest waste paper basket, but I find that a number of
your readers in Australia think somewhat the same as I do.

More brickbats--I hope not! and more bouquets--I hope so! the next time
I write.--N.W. Alcock, 5 Gaza Rd., Naremburn, N.S.W., Australia.


Not in de Head!!

Dear Editor:

I shall be glad to take advantage of your cordial invitation to come
over to "The Readers' Corner." In the first place, I find your magazine
the best of its kind on the market, and you are to be congratulated on
having such excellent authors as Ray Cummings, Murray Leinster and
Captain S. P. Meek. Nevertheless, there are so many things to be
criticized that I hardly know where to begin.

Let's start of with stories of future warfare. Although this class is
potentially one of the most interesting, it is at the same time one of
the most abused. Ray Cummings can write classics in this field, but the
efforts of most the others are atrocities. I'll wager that their
favorite childhood sport was mowing down whole regiments of lead
soldiers with oxy-acetylene torches. It shows in their writings. Why
can't they think of something original? Why can't they make their
stories logical? The merits of a story are not dependent on the number
of people wiped out by one blast of a death ray! But they all stick to
the same old plot. A merciless but well-meaning scientist, or hordes
from a foreign planet, wipe out thousands of American citizens at one
blow. Hundreds of airplanes are disintegrated before they discover that
the enemy is invulnerable. An ultimatum in domineering tones gives the
terror-stricken populace forty-eight hours in which to surrender. But,
all unknown to the dastardly villains, an obscure young scientist labors
to save his country and the girl he loves. Fifteen minutes before the
time set in the ultimatum he perfects a new weapon that soon sends the
invaders to their well merited fate.

Surely you realize how ridiculous the whole affair is. It is only
slightly less nauseating than the plot used in the stories of advanced
civilizations where the hero is conducted on a sight-seeing tour by the
individual in whose path he popped upon entering this new world. I can't
believe that more than a handful of my fellow beings are of such low
intelligence that they can find enjoyment in such trash. You will notice
that although every reader has a different list of favorite authors, Ray
Cummings has his name in practically every list. He is easily your
favorite author. Ray Cummings does not wipe out whole cities at one
time. His heroes do not save the world by inventing a new weapon at a
moment's notice. His wars are not of forty-eight hours' duration. His
conquerors do not attempt to win the war by one great attack on New York
City. Do try to have your authors write logical stories.

I would now like to criticize the love element in your stories. I do not
claim that there should be none whatever from cover to cover of your
magazine, but I do claim that there should be none unless it really
helps the plot. Most of your authors seem to think that a girl is
necessary in every plot and so they bring her in, disregarding the fact
that they do not know how to handle such material. The way it stands
now, the heroine is introduced in a lame, routine fashion; is rescued
once or twice; and accepts the hero as a husband in an altogether lame
fashion.

There are many other points but they can wait. Logical war stories, no
Utopias or sight-seeing tours, sensible love element, plus your present
policy will make a corking magazine.--Philip Waite, 3400 Wayne Ave., New
York, N.Y.


No Present Plans

Dear Editor:

Thanks for the new color cover. It certainly is a big improvement. The
picture on the front of "our" magazine was just as astounding as the
story by R. F. Starzl from which it was drawn. Let's have more stories
from the pen of Mr. Starzl.

In my opinion "Beyond the Heaviside Layer" is the best story I have read
in Astounding Stories to date. I am very pleased that you intend to
print a sequel to it.

Now I would like to ask you a question. Do you intend to print an Annual
or Quarterly, or do think you will ever enlarge the size of this
magazine? I don't care so much whether you enlarge the magazine or not,
but I certainly would like to read an Annual or Quarterly.

Even though this letter meets the fate of thousands of other such
letters and sees the inside of your wastebasket, I will at least have
had the pleasure of writing to you and wishing "our" magazine success to
the nth degree.--Forrest J. Ackerman, 236-Â½ N. New Hampshire, Los
Angeles, Calif.


"Excellent" to "So-So"

Dear Editor:

I notice a large number of subscribers are giving their opinions of
Astounding Stories. I hate to be with the crowd, but I have to side with
the majority in this case and say it's just about right.

My favorite writers are R. F. Starzl (that "Planet of Dread" was a
peach). Chas. W. Diffin, A. Merritt, Ralph Milne Farley, Murray Leinster
and Ray Cummings.

Now as to the August issue, here is how I rate them:

"Planet of Dread"--more than 20c. worth at the first crack. A real
story.

"Lord of Space"--excellent. I meant to include Victor Rousseau in my
list of favorites above.

"The Second Satellite"--so-so.

"Silver Dome"--so.

"Earth the Marauder"--too deep for me. And that Beryl stuff is sheer
bunk.

"Murder Madness"--a real story. Get more like this.

"The Flying City"--too much explanation and description and not enough
action.

Perhaps it looks like I'm sort of critical after all, but I didn't mean
it just that way. What I'm driving at is that Astounding Stories is by
far superior to its competitors, and I'm telling you so because it might
make you feel better to know it. If you want to print this testimonial,
go to it. To tell the truth, I'll be looking for it.--Leslie P. Mann,
1227 Ogden Ave., Chicago, Illinois.


"Too Many Serials"

Dear Editor:

I have just finished the August issue, and I would like to tell you my
opinion of it and the magazine as a whole.

The stories in order of merit were:

1--"The Second Satellite"; 2--"The Flying City"; 3--"Silver Dome";
4--"The Lord of Space"; 5--"The Planet of Dread."

I won't pass judgment upon the serials, as I have not read all the
parts.

In "The Flying City" there are a number of points I am hazy about. How
could Cor speak English? However, this could be cleared up by saying
that Cor sent out men to get the language, etc.

As a whole, Astounding Stories is a good magazine. There are too many
serials, however, but since other readers like them I won't complain.

You have a fine array of Science Fiction authors. With such writers as
Vincent, Meek, Hamilton, Starzl and Ernst, your magazine can't be
anything but a success.

The September layouts look good to me. I hope it is.--E. Anderson, 1765
Southern Blvd., New York, N.Y.


Thanks, Mr. Glasser

Dear Editor:

Somewhat belatedly I am writing to commend you most heartily on the
August issue of Astounding Stories, which I consider by far the finest
number since the inception of the magazine last January. The authors
whose work appeared in this issue are among the greatest modern writers
of fantasy and scientific fiction. Leinster, Burks, Hamilton,
Rousseau--what a brilliant galaxy! And Starzl, Vincent, Rich; all
writers of note. If ever a magazine merited the designation "all-star
number," your August issue filled the bill.

However, I am confident that even this superb achievement will be
surpassed by some future edition of Astounding Stories, for each
succeeding number to date has improved on the one before. And with a new
Cummings novel in the offing, it seems the August issue, despite its
excellence, will speedily be eclipsed.--Allen Glasser, 1510 University
Ave., New York, N.Y.


Are Our Covers Too "Gaudy"?

Dear Editor:

This is the first time that I have ventured to air my views to any
magazine, but as yours interests me greatly I hereby shed my reticence.

I believe, of all magazine of your type, you have come nearest
perfection. But there are just a few things that bother me, and, no
doubt, others like me. In the first place, must you make your covers as
lurid and as contradictory to good design as they are? Really, I blush
when my newsdealer hands me the gaudy thing. People interested in
science do not usually succumb to circus poster advertising.

Then there are the stories. I realize that you must cater to all tastes,
but some of them are very childish, slightly camouflaged fairy tales.
Science Fiction can be written very convincingly, as is testified by the
stories of H. G. Wells, Ray Cummings, Jules Verne, and others. These
writers attain their effects by the proper use of the English language,
without silly and obviously tacked-on romance, the use of known
scientific facts elaborated sensibly and by not trying to make a novel
out of a short story.

The stimulation of the imagination from Science Fiction is most
enjoyable and I shall continue to read your magazine even though my
fault finding is not considered, for, as I said before, you certainly
have come nearer my ideal than any of the others.--Hector D. Spear, 867
W. 181st St., The Tri-Sigma Fraternity, New York City.


Nossir--Our Astronomy Is O. K.

Dear Editor:

I am taking advantage of your invitation to write to you. Since
Astounding Stories is available you have given me a lot of pleasure, and
I hope you may get a little pleasure out of reading this.

First, I want to say that you're hitting the ball as far as I'm
concerned. I could hardly suggest an improvement.

In the August issue I liked "Planet of Dread," by R. F. Starzl, best.
When that thing in the "pipe" grabbed me, I mean Gunga, wow! And it gave
me a lot of satisfaction to see the Master in "Murder Madness," by
Murray Leinster, get it in the neck. "Lord of Space" was good, too. In
fact all the stories were good. I have only read two or three I really
did not like since you started.

Say, I never heard of a planet named Inra. Don't you think your author
ought to brush up on his astronomy? I also noticed some other authors
are a little weak on astronomy; not that I'm complaining. The stories
are O. K. with me.--Harry Johnson, 237 E. 128th St., New York City.


Mr. Yetter Checks Up on Us

Dear Editor:

As I am a constant reader of Astounding Stories I wish to say that
though S. P. Meek is one of my favorite authors his story, "Cold Light,"
was a little wrong when he called the "Silver Range" by the name of
"Stillwater Range." I also think it would have been better if he had had
a car take Dr. Bird and Carnes out to the hills, became even in Fallon a
burro is a strange sight.

But Meek, Cummings, Burks and all the rest of our famous authors'
stories should be in the magazine often. If Verrill, Wells, Nathenson
and Hamilton would also write, the magazine would be perfect.

I like all the stories, though some seem to be copies, and others lack
science.

Here is for a long life for Astounding Stories!--Frank Yetter, 369
Railroad Ave., Fallon, Nevada.


"Charm All Its Own"

Dear Editor:

Let me congratulate you. I have just read "The Planet of Dread," by R.
F. Starzl, in your August issue of Astounding Stories.

Real science, you know, is pretty rigidly limited, but super-science of
the kind you seem to run has a freshness and charm all its own.

I came upon your magazine quite by accident, and from now on no doubt
will look for it as I stand before the racks of magazines, trying to
decide upon something to read--Anton J. Sartori, 1330 W. 6th St., Los
Angeles, Calif.


Inra Could Exist

Dear Editor:

You will have to excuse this old telegraph office typewriter. It is all
I have to express my appreciation to you for the tremendously
interesting magazine you put out. I have only read the last three
issues, but those are enough to convince me that Astounding Stories
fills a long-felt want. I read all the others too, but from now on I'm
going to look over their offerings at the stand before I buy. They have
to go some to come up to the standard set by you, especially in the
August copy.

That story, "The Planet of Dread," was the most weird, exciting,
thrilling, satisfying--in short, the most "astounding" story I have ever
read. Nothing has seemed so real since I first read Wells' stories. I
liked the characters. Poor Gunga. I could just see him, trying to
sacrifice the man he obviously worshipped to stop that horrible noise.
The picture of Gunga on the cover was just exactly what I would expect
the Martian to look like. You have a good artist. I liked Mark
Forepaugh, too. He didn't lose his nerve for one minute--not Mark. Who
says civilization is going down, when the future holds men like that?

Next to "The Planet of Dread" I liked "The Lord of Space." That was a
vivid and well-drawn story, too. Those two, I think, were the
outstanding stories for August. But I must not forget "Murder Madness,"
the serial; it was thrilling and convincing. That's the only kick I
have: so many stories sound thin. I don't believe them when I read them.
I also want to mention "The Forgotten Planet" and "From An Amber Block."
Good, exciting, and you can believe them without too much strain.

Oh, by the way, the author of "The Planet of Dread" made a mistake when
he chose a mythical planet for his terrific adventures. Why not Venus or
Mercury? If they have water the conditions on them would be similar to
what he described for Inra. There ain't no such planet. But why expect
perfection! I'm satisfied.

I wish you success. That's a late wish. You're a success already.--Tom
P. Fitzgerald, Newcastle, Nebraska.


Thus Ended the Quest

Dear Editor:

This is my first letter to your magazine, and right away I'm asking for
a pair of sequels. One of these is to "The Moon Master," by Charles W.
Diffin. These sad endings depress me greatly, but if I looked at the
ending first to see whether or not it was sad it would ruin the story;
and besides sad endings usually have good stories in front of them. The
other sequel I want is to "From The Ocean's Depths," by Sewell P.
Wright, and its sequel "Into The Ocean's Depths."

In looking over my back copies of the magazine I find that I have not
disliked a single story. Thus endeth my quest for a brickbat.

Are you going to put out a quarterly? Both the other Science Fiction
magazines that I get do so, and I observe that it gives opportunity for
a story of full novel length all in one piece. Not that I object to
serials, but I like once in a while to sit down to a long story without
having to dig out three or four magazines. However, please continue the
long serials, for what is life without the element of suspense?--Hugh M.
Gilmore, 920 N. Vista St., Hollywood, Cal.


"The Readers' Corner"

All Readers are extended a sincere and cordial invitation to "come over
in 'The Readers' Corner'" and join in our monthly discussion of stories,
authors, scientific principles and possibilities--everything that's of
common interest in connection with our Astounding Stories.

Although from time to time the Editor may make a comment or so, this is
a department primarily for _Readers_, and we want you to make full use
of it. Likes, dislikes, criticisms, explanations, roses, brickbats,
suggestions--everything's welcome here; so "come over in 'The Readers'
Corner'" and discuss it with all of us!

_The Editor._

       *       *       *       *       *


